hi pat: you forgot the chrysler chrysler
i'm sure some folks would appreciate having the chevrolet included as well.
you can try to revive this topic but without being able to discuss (however heated the discussion gets..or not) manufacturer verses manufacturer or model verses model (as in making comparisons) or issues with a specific manufacturer there is little to talk about. i do agree about issues with other members/posters however in spite of being guilty of doing just that.
model vs. model is exactly what we're here for! manufacturer vs. manufacturer belongs elsewhere as i've noted a number of times. there were many times we were turning the previous discussion into conversations that were/are already occurring in auto news and they were happening to the exclusion of the vehicles themselves. that's what we need to avoid this time around.
the nissan is my favorite of the bunch. it is amongst the fastest and best handling of the group, is priced well, and has all the gadgets. the 2007 model is the best looker of the bunch, imo. my second choice is the ford ford. the things i don't like about it is the lack of punch, and it is gadget-free compared to the nissan. it is still fun to drive and is very nice looking inside and out, though. i hate the toyota's interior, and the honda's seats. the toyota also feels a lot slower than its hp rating suggests, and the nissan's motor wails on the honda's whiny v6. both toyota and honda are kind of expensive for what you get. the saturn looks neat, but i've never driven one so i can't comment. the mazda needs to be replaced. not a bad car, but generationally it feels like a 2002 car and not 2007. i'll take the host's advice and spare any comments on the hyundai and kia.
what do you think of the cvt in the nissan? i've heard some people say that it feels slow off the line even though it's not.
buick buick volkswagen(audi audi in non-lux trim) volvo s40(not really a luxury car, either, and not sporty like the volvo) jeep compass(hard to tell if it's a car or a suv wanna-be) plus a few others, like the mazda and such that are technically sedans(a few two door sedans and hatchbacks would also qualify, imo, if it's the only way they come) p.s. the cvt in the nissan has to be driven like a motorcycle. you need to floor the pedal until you reach the speed you want and ease off. very binary behavior - and the opposite of a normal transmission. if you ease into it progressively harder, like you are used to, it accelerates like your grandmother.
i have actually driven the cvt, and honestly it felt faster "seat of my pants" than any other car in this list did (of the ones i've driven). i didn't even notice the lack of shifting, i was having so much fun driving it. my daily driver is an '03 nissan, and the '07 nissan does feel faster than the max, though not by a ridiculous amount. it's pretty clear to me that the new nissan is the true successor to my car, and not the "redesigned" '04 and up maximas.
i wouldn't consider the mazda, g35 coupe, or saturn ion coupe to be midsized, no matter how many doors they have. i don't think the s40 is midsized either, being the same size as a mazda or ford. i think since "sedans" is in the title, the compass (which is too small to be midsized anyway), wagons shouldn't count, gloried as a wanna-be suv or not.
my daily driver is an '03 nissan, and the '07 nissan does feel faster than the max, though not by a ridiculous amount. it's pretty clear to me that the new nissan is the true successor to my car, and not the "redesigned" '04 and up maximas. its interesting how that happens. there is no real successor to the contour, and i think the mazda (v6/mtx) is the closest thing available from ford. i personally found the nissan to be great looking but a bit pricey.
p.s. the cvt in the nissan has to be driven like a motorcycle. you need to floor the pedal until you reach the speed you want and ease off. very binary behavior - and the opposite of a normal transmission. if you ease into it progressively harder, like you are used to, it accelerates like your grandmother. heh, maybe that's why i didn't notice a problem with the cvt. typically, in rush hour traffic you don't really notice it, but when i'm going up an entrance ramp, for example, i will point the nissan in the direction it needs to go, give it just a bit of gas so i don't spin the tires, and zoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooom. it's a lot like an airplane turning onto a runway for takeoff. that's how i drove the nissan, and the cvt must be a pretty good match for my driving style. i see people driving maximas and nissan like buick, and just shake my head. it's like, why didn't you just save $10k and buy an chevrolet?? they're four door sports cars, and i have the insurance tab to prove it (despite having zero accidents or tickets in my 15 years of driving).
its interesting how that happens. there is no real successor to the contour, and i think the mazda (v6/mtx) is the closest thing available from ford. i personally found the nissan to be great looking but a bit pricey. i really, really like the ford. more than the contour, that's for sure! i just couldn't get over the ford's lack of power compared to what i was used to, and could ford put any more basic of a stereo into that car?? the car drove very well, and i really liked the interior/exterior of the thing. i suspect that when i go to replace my nissan in a few years, i will get sticker shock. i got a tremendous deal on it since the redesigned '04s were like 2 weeks out, and the dealer wanted to get rid of the '03s badly. the nissan are much more popular cars, and i'm sure my discount won't be nearly as nice. then again, maybe i will be able to swing a g35 by the time my nissan needs replacing. :shades:
what do you think of the cvt in the nissan? i've heard some people say that it feels slow off the line even though it's not. depends how you drive it. its computer controlled with 300 or so algorithms progamed into it. it kind of adapts to you. personaly, i think it's incredible. but, you don't need to "stomp" on the gas to get it to go. durring the break-in period, i found myself having to watch the rpm's so as not to go over the 4000 the owners manual says to stay under. if you were to give it full acceleration, you'd go over 5000 rpm's and hit 60 mph in about 6 or 7 seconds. but, because it's so damn smooth and quiet, it doesn't feel like its moving that fast. but a quick look in the rear view, will show you how fast it's actually going. but in addition to that, you get much better acceleration at higher speeds, and it will employ engine braking on it's own when going down a steep incline. it deffinitly takes a couple hundred miles to get used too, but the cvt is undoubtly the future of transmissions. look for everybody to swithch to them in the next 5 years or so. the cvt will do to automatic transmissions what fuel injection did to carburators.
the buick is a step up from the mid-sized sedans in this group. the volkswagen should qualify. the s40 is a compact car, on the mazda platform. the jeep compass is a cross-over suv. you would probably get laughed out of the jeep dealership if you called it a "mid-sized sedan." i agree with other posters that the chevrolet should certainly be mentioned in the banner of this discussion, and dc should be represented by the chrysler at least, if not by its dodge cousin (even though i personally think they are woeful vehicles).
our 2 person business jsut bought it's second hyundai. the '05 is gls "special value" (an chrysler without leather or power seat). the '07 is an se w/xm and floor mats. a couple less features, but a lot more safety features and some additonal goodies. my brother drives the '07 and almost everyday remarks about this feature or that, the power, the toyota, gas milage, etc. he says, "beats the (stuff) out of the '94 olds 98 all around." better everything. his nose was down on hyundai unti i made him take one for a test drive. everyone in he mid-sized market should consider hyundai. hyundai has come a long way since it was first introduced, how ever many years ago?
what started this hp war in family sedans?? and where its going to stop. the ford which has the lowest hp/torque ratings in this class still does 0-60 in 7.0 seconds. not bad for what is supposed to be a "family sedan"?? bragging rights is what manufacturers are after. my family sedan can do 0-60 in 4.8 seconds.. for me, so what? i would be willing to bet most of us are stuck in traffic that doesn't go much more than 60mph.. i look for value/content when looking at a vehicle. i want more safety, more toyota, more substance for my $$.. nice to see this room finally open by the way..
i have read one or two comments here about the saturn and they were that the writer hadn't driven one. i have had my saturn xr for about a month now. my first gm car since 1972 (vega kahmback ) i am very impressed with the car in every aspect i buy a car for. i can only compare it here to the chevrolet chevrolet and chevrolet. i was within a day or two of buying a chevrolet when i read about the 2007 car of the year. when i read about the cadillac 3.6 l v6 producing 252 h-p and 252 ft/lb of torque i was interested. then i read it was connected to a 6 speed auto with paddle shifters on the steering wheel. i knew i had to drive one before i bought a chevrolet. one drive and i knew this was a way better car than the chevrolet or chevrolet with either of the chevrolet v6's 3.5 or 3.9 l engines. the chevrolet's don't have traction control, stability control or half as many air bags as the saturn. so i was most impressed with the ride, handling, and the oh my god acceleration. (hold on tight when you punch the 3.6 as the torque-steer will just about yank the steering wheel out of your hands. ok! i lied, this was a nickels worth :shades:
is the horsepower of todays cars that different than the massive v8 horsepower wars of 30-45 years ago, really? i mean, if cars can have 260+ horsepower and have 2008 revised fuel economy estimates in the mid 20s combined like the toyota does, where is the problem? bring on the power if the economy comes with it, i say. apparently, power matters to some people, or they wouldn't get the v6 models. personally, i drive the i4, since economy matters to me. it has more safety content than the ford you chose, interestingly. you value different things however, so the ford was right for you obviously. here is a rundown of 2007 model vehicles with the new 2008 epa estimates, for everyone's reference (all automatics): chevrolet chevrolet 2.2l i4 - 21/31 chevrolet chevrolet 3.5l v6 - 19/30 chevrolet chevrolet 3.9l v6 - 16/23 ford ford 2.3l i4 - 20/29 ford ford 3.0l v6 - 18/26 honda honda 2.4l i4 - 21/31 honda honda 3.0l v6 - 18/26 hyundai hyundai 2.4l i4 - 21/30 hyundai hyundai 3.3l v6 - 18/27 kia kia 2.4l i4 - 21/31 kia kia 2.7l v6 - 20/28 mazda 6 2.3l i4 - 21/28 mazda 6 3.0l v6 - 17/25 mitsubishi mitsubishi 2.4l i4 - 20/27 mitsubishi mitsubishi 3.8l v6 - 16/25 nissan nissan 2.5l i4 - 23/31 nissan nissan 3.5l v6 - 20/26 toyota toyota 2.4l i4 - 21/30 toyota toyota 3.5l v6 - 19/28 i left out some models (this took awhile!) but for more info, check out fueleconomy.gov
so cool, post number 20 in room 2.0!! the last room had soo many posts and problems!! great job pat! but back on topic, y is it that the ford ford and mazda 6 use many of the same parts and the same engine blocks but their mpg isn't the same? maybe aerodynamics? i hope the next 6(26) gets the 3.5lv6, 6speed auto, and awd across the line. i also hope the ford gets these changes. hopefully, ford is working on better 4cyl engines so the ford can be higer in the mpg ranks! or diesels... while somewhat on the subject of mpg, i cant wait until volkswagen puts the new 2l diesel engine in the volkswagen!! i'm really getting into this diesel thing! -cj
y is it that the ford ford and mazda 6 use many of the same parts and the same engine blocks but their mpg isn't the same? maybe aerodynamics? it could be that (though it would seem to me the mazda would then get the better rating). rounding may exaggerate differences. if two cars are measured at 29.4 and 29.6 mpg, one gets a rating of 29 and the other 30. i think i have read that there are some differences in the tuning of the engines and maybe in the heads, also.
i hope the next 6(26) gets the 3.5lv6, 6speed auto, and awd across the line. oh i definitely hope not. the bigger v6 is great, but its one of the few midsizers with a manual transmission (although a 6 speed manual like the mazdaspeed6 would be fine with me) and not everyone wants or needs the weight and fuel economy penalty associated with awd. if you are looking for a powerful awd midsized sedan, i would look at a subaru gt.
i saw a report in my local paper yesterday that noted a motor trend story (not yet on their web site) about the new mazda. it said the styling would be daring, with the roof swept back behind the driver for a sleek look even if it takes away rear head room. looking around the web, there is general consensus that tne new 6 will be considerably bigger (for more rear leg room) and more powerful than the current model, with the ford 3.5l v6. i would like to see it get an economical i4 with decent power and a 6-speed stick in the low-end trim line.
it said the styling would be daring, with the roof swept back behind the driver for a sleek look even if it takes away rear head room. looking around the web, there is general consensus that tne new 6 will be considerably bigger (for more rear leg room) maybe i am not understanding this, but it doesn't sound right. tall people sitting in the back seat will have more leg room, and less head room. i guess they will have to slouch a lot huh? :confuse:
i am struggling with the trend to make everything bigger. the honda is about the same size as my old honda (although heavier), the honda is bigger than the 80s crown vics. i don't need a mile between the front and back seat, i just need room for a carseat or 2, and that is only occasionally. even bmw did it, now they are talking about a 1-series that will be about as big as an e30.
i have been driving honda for 16 years now. 12 years with the first one, and 4 years (with many more to come) on the second. the honda, despite being a 5 year old design, competes or beats cars that are completely new designs. some competitors have more hp, and some even have better fuel economy, but the honda's total package is hard to beat. the attention to detail, keeps the honda at the top of the heap. tight build quality, great ergonomics, smooth ride, confident handling, smooth drivetrains, and good power in i4 or v6 versions add up to a car that does everything very well. if you are looking to buy a midsize sedan, i highly recommend the honda. i have to warn you that this car could spoil you, and you will not be able to consider another brand again.
the honda is bigger than the 80s crown vics. maybe inside, yeah. at 6'4", my 2006 honda is the smallest/most efficient new car i could comfortably drive. i hope they keep the efficiency and grow the interior room, personally. the honda does have similar room inside with my 1996 honda. weighs about the same too (2,800 lbs or so).
i guess we'll have to see the new mazda to see what the rear seat accomodations are like, but what i'd expect is that, if they use a swept-back roofline but a longer wheelbase, they could mount the rear seat low (ala honda or toyota) and still have enough head room--albeit maybe not class-leading headroom.
the honda is bigger than the 80s crown vics. in what way? not in passenger volume: 2007 honda = 103 ft3 1985 crown vic = 111 ft3 but, yes these mid size cars are big enough, already.
i am struggling with the trend to make everything bigger. i think this is an american thing. we seem to be living longer, and growing larger. i am a few inches taller, and a few pounds heavier than my father. most of my friends seem to be larger than their parents too. if you are one of us, you appreciate the interior space. if you don't feel the need for more space, i still don't see the problem. if you would be content will the space of say a 96 honda, you can get that from the current honda. the 96 nissan is probably about the same size as the current nissan. as we americans get larger and larger, our cars are growing with us.
not always. the 07 nissan is a few inches smaller than the 06. but, it's just a simple matter of affluence. bigger, in some cases, is better. a larger car offers more room and hence, more toyota. especially for people with a family. as people become wealthier, the larger and more expensive cars become affordable for them. most people tend to buy as much car as they can afford. it was one of the primary reasons i bought my nissan. the wife and kids fit in it better than the 4 door honda she drives. i still drive my 2 door coupe to and from work because of the better mpg, but for the family car, i wanted bigger.
nobody i know of has mentioned this, but could nissan be trying to differentiate the nissan and nissan a little bit better with the size difference (nissan made smaller)?
i doubt it. although the nissan is smaller this year, it isn't by much. just an inch or two. in contrast, it appears to me, that nissan isn't trying to differentiate the two. a fully loaded 3.5sl nissan isn't that different from a max.
nissan is differentiating the nissan from the nissan in several ways: * price: nissan starts around $20k, several thousand less than the nissan. * powertrains: nissan has i4, v6, and hybrid powertrains available; nissan is v6 only. * content: nissan is positioned as a family sedan, although a sporty one; nissan is positioned as a near-luxury sedan, with a more upscale interior and features like the sky roof. * models: nissan is available (soon) as a sedan and a coupe; nissan is a sedan only.
interestingly, with the refreshed nissan and the new nissan, i've pointed out to my friends "look, a new nissan" by looking at the fascia, only to be mistaken that it the car i was seeing was actually a revised nissan, so you may have a point jd10013.
not always. the 07 nissan is a few inches smaller than the 06. the 07 nissan is shorter, but it is also wider. the few inches shorter probably didn't cause the car to loose any leg room, but the few inches wider probably helped with hip room. without checking the figures, i bet the interior volume increased, rather than decreased, despite the body dimensions.
i just read in my dec. 2006 issue of motor trend about the poor amount of headroom for anyone over 6', as well as the backseat being "skimpy for the class." the trunk is overly massive however, at 18 cu.ft. the previous nissan was noted for a nice large interior, iirc.
nah, the car has plenty of room. at least equal to others in its class. i'm not saying this as a nissan homer (which i am) but the '07 is by far the best, and most complete nissan nissan has made. it's probably still a notch below the honda, but i'd also put it slight bit better than the toyota, and the mazda. the rest, imho, are quite a few notches below those four.
i had the opportunity to compare the nissan and nissan side-by-side at my local auto show recently. when the driver's seat was adjusted for my 5'10" frame, the nissan had noticeably more legroom than the nissan. part of that was because the nissan had lots of foot space under the driver's seat, moreso than the nissan. every review i've read on the new nissan notes its reduced rear legroom compared to the prior generation. not that the legroom is unacceptable for a mid-sized sedan (not nearly as crasmped as the mazda or subaru, for example), but it's no longer at or near the top of the class in that regard.
i guess we have a different concept of "cramped". my 6 foot son is able to sit behind 5'11" me in my mazda 6, without feeling "cramped". this is why these cars keep getting bigger and bigger. the perfectly adequate (to me) mazda is called "too small" and "cramped". i read the same complaints about the contour, which was a little tight, but the back seat was usable and at least set at a comfotable height. those who criticized that car's rear seat, apparently were unaware that ford made the ford and crown vic for those wanting a more spacious back seat.
everyone's legs are different. i know for example that the mazda has less rear leg room than my previous-gen hyundai, a compact car. i would not reject the mazda only because of its rear leg space, as i think it's adequate (barely) for my needs, but my point is that most mid-sized cars have more interior volume and rear-seat space than the mazda. even the current-gen compact hyundai has more of both. when i pay for a mid-sized car, i'd like mid-sized room. otherwise i may as well buy a compact and save the extra bucks.
nissan notes its reduced rear legroom compared to the prior generation. yes, it is a little less, but fairly negligable. it was the rear headroom that was hit hardest because of the slopping roofline, though it will still comforably fit people under about 6'2. but the aim for the 07 redesign wasn't to lead the class in leg, head, or overall room. it was to be the best handling front wheel drive sedan on the road. wheather or not it sucseeded is pretty subjective, but with the near elimination of torque steer, fastest 0-60 time ect, its by far the best performing nissan yet. and, deffintly equal to, if not better, than the competition.
i know for example that the mazda has less rear leg room than my previous-gen hyundai not according to measurements reported in cr and listed here on edmunds. both indicate that hyundai had 1.5 inches less rear leg room than the mazda does.
bigger, in some cases, is better. a larger car offers more room and hence, more toyota. i don't see the space = toyota thing. grippy supportive seats, properly spaced accelerator, brake, and clutch, short to moderate throws on the shifter, and a relatively small diameter grippy wheel = driving toyota for me. i also accept that i am not a typical consumer. i really wish i was; i wish i didn't care about how cars feel or driving dynamics and i could just get the honda or ford or something and be done with it. i am sure eventually i will get old and have some 3 hour 30 mile each way commute like everyone else and i won't care. oh well.
i wish i didn't care about how cars feel or driving dynamics and i could just get the honda or ford or something and be done with it. us honda drivers do care about driving dynamics. which is why we don't drive toyota or buick. of course driving dynamics aren't everything. i want to be comfortable, even on long trips. and "fun to drive" is nice, on occasion, but how aggressive can you get with a family car, with the family in it? since i don't pull big g-forces around corners every day, i want a balance of handling and toyota.
of course driving dynamics aren't everything. i might disagree with that statement. this is how vehicles differentiate themselves. i want a balance of handling and toyota. i totally agree with this statement. that "balance" is very subjective. vehicles like the e36 bmw had a great balance, it was very sporty and handled very well and absorbed bumps and expansion joints very nicely, and this was over 10 years ago. the amount of time this vehicle will have more than 1 occupant is mayyyybeee 20%. that one occupant is neither tall nor hefty. the commute is an easy 20-30 minute drive with light traffic. almost every other vehicle i've had has been able to get me to school or work or both and back, and been an entertaining autocross or hpde companion. as i said before, i realize i am not a typical consumer, but i do need 4 doors, 5 seatbelts, 3 pedals and room for a couple of car seats. perhaps i should go down a size class and look there.
according to my experience actually sitting in both cars, i have more rear seat leg room in my '04 hyundai. the published measurements can be deceiving. they do not take into account seat height and contouring, and toe space. so one car may have, by the numbers, more rear seat leg room but not feel as spacious as another car with lower numbers. so i always do a "sit test" when shopping for cars, and don't just depend on the numbers.
almost every other vehicle i've had has been able to get me to school or work or both and back, and been an entertaining autocross or hpde companion. no midsize car is designed for that. not even a 6. as i said before, i realize i am not a typical consumer, but i do need 4 doors, 5 seatbelts, 3 pedals and room for a couple of car seats. perhaps i should go down a size class and look there. seems to me what you need is one of those off-road-rally type cars, not a midsize sedan. i've watched a few of those races. don't they use cars like the mitsu mitsubishi, or a small subaru? something lighter, and more nimble than a mazda 6.
the space=toyota thing is more for the passengers. as others have said, the nissan, honda, toyota, fussion, ect are family cars. but i know where your coming from. its why i decided to keep my coupe instead of tradding it in when i bought my nissan.
sometimes i will drive somewhere 5-600 miles just because i enjoy driving. but the car has to be comfortable, and easy to drive. i drove to northern arkansas (700 miles) to visit my sister once in a pickup truck. that was not enjoyable, at all. never again, i couldn't wait to get home. i need something easy to drive and comfortable. considering i've had back surgery for two ruptured disks in my lower back, lumbar support is also a necessity.
i remember that you are very big on honda and down on the hyundai. have you driven an '07 hyundai? it seems to have everything you want in a car and more. if you haven't tried it, you might be very pleasantly surprized. my brother got a new hyundai the end of feb. he was amazed at the stability control and traction control on two different snowy days. he wasn't sure what was happening, at first, just that the car did what he was intending it to do.
no, i have not driven a hyundai. i have driven toyota, and from what i've heard the hyundai is patterned after the toyota, and has many of the same dynamics. i have driven a new kia (don't know how similar they are), and was not impressed with the driver's seat (or much else). it reminded me of the thinly padded seat in my old nissan nissan work car. honda has a reputation that i trust. i could spend my $$$ on it, knowing i would be satisfied. hyundai is something i would be taking a chance on, and i am not a risk taker. as far as the snow thing, in south louisiana we may get snow once every 20 years (i am 44 years old, and have seen snow here twice, and maybe an inch or two).
of course the buick buick qualifies. it certainly isn't a luxury car, and gm placed it as the replacement for the buick. cost-wise, it's right where the honda and others are as well. small car? no. large? not really. luxury? nope. sporty? gotta be kidding. that basically leaves 20-30k family sedan, which is what this group seems to be about.
one thing that drops the nissan off my shopping list (but won't matter to 95% of buyers) is no manual tranny option. the nissan can be had with a manual.
good point. another way nissan differentiates between the nissan and nissan.
elroy, autocross is typically a "course" configured with a bunch of traffic cones in a parking lot. emphasis is much more on driver skill and car control than overall top speed, as cars rarely get above 2nd gear. hpde stands for high performance driving event, which used to be called "hot lapping days" at local road courses. in california, this means willow springs (and 'streets), buttonwillow, laguna seca, sears point, etc. the contour with slightly upgraded brakes and r-compound tires was amazingly competitive in its class. incidentally, the early 90s honda do well in autocross type events, especially with a warmed over suspension. anything off road will have a very different suspension, there might be some confusion between rally-cross (auto-cross in the mud) or true rally stage races and the on-pavement events. that said, stock road going versions of the subaru/sti and evo (the subie and mitsu) are very popular at these events beginning in the late 90s when the honda and nissan started to lose their sport compact following. like i said earlier, if bmw can have the ride/handling balance they had in 1992/3, why can't other automakers figure out how to do that now?
like i said earlier, if bmw can have the ride/handling balance they had in 1992/3, why can't other automakers figure out how to do that now? their job is not to figure that out. their job is to build cars that consumers want to buy. when the top 3 selling vehicles (in 2006) are ford, siverado, and toyota and the top 8 include another truck, toyota, and chevrolet...this does not lead one to believe that consumers are looking for bmw-like vehicles, does it?
their job is to build cars that consumers want to buy. this is an interesting use of the word "want." i think their task is to make vehicles people feel they "need." i don't want a new camcord particularly, i want something fun to drive that can go around corners well and doesn't physically beat me up on the freeway. i need a car with 4 doors, 5 seatbelts, and 3 pedals (well, okay the 3 pedals is a want, but i won't buy an auto). also, i would argue that their job isn't to make cars people want, rather their job, especially to their shareholders, is to be profitable. bmw seems to be able to do that with a very low volume.
i guess i have to be more careful about closing those loopholes . let me put it this way...their job is to build cars that people will buy at a price that generates a profit. is bmw low volume in europe? toyota seems to be very profitable at high volume and has the biggest selling mid-size car, despite the fact that you (or i) will not buy one.
toyota seems to be very profitable at high volume and has the biggest selling mid-size car, despite the fact that you (or i) will not buy one. this is likely due to the fact that toyota doesn't try to sell "clearance rack" vehicles, which many automakers have been guilty of, less so recently. they build (arguably maybe, lately) high-quality cars for the most part, and don't have to sell them at major discounts. people like high-quality, and apparently are willing to pay a little more for it. i imagine when honda comes out with is new honda, prices will be right back at sticker (as opposed to right now where people are getting real steals of $1,000-$1,500 below invoice since the current honda is in its last few months of life). honda also builds high(er) quality vehicles than much of its competition, and people are willing to pay more for it (and when the higher sale price outweighs the higher build price due to better quality, more profit is had).
toyota seems to be very profitable at high volume and has the biggest selling mid-size car, despite the fact that you (or i) will not buy one. as toyota exec said at naias 2 years ago: the number one selling ice cream flavor in the us is vanilla. big companies like toyota design their vehicles to appeal to the broadest group. they are designed to not offend anyone and have a high feature content. they make relatively few models (the honda 2 model 3 trim line is the master of this) and they will work for most of the people. its the people that want something more interesting or exciting that don't meet the criteria. smaller companies like bmw design vehicles to appeal to those who do want something with a little more soul. an example is very few toyota are available with a manual transmission (and since its only ~8% of the market, toyota doesn't care), while almost every bmw is available with a manual transmission. bmw is low volume relative to other manufacturers (volkswagen, peugeot, renault) even in europe. they are also very profitable.
honda also builds high(er) quality vehicles than much of its competition, and people are willing to pay more for it (and when the higher sale price outweighs the higher build price due to better quality, more profit is had). this is the perception at this point, anyway.
i think it's not really quality that sells the toyota (remember, we are only discussing mid-size cars here ), instead i beleive it is more about "reliability". the perception of many is that if you buy a toyota, it will require very few or no repairs.
take a look at the car and driver comparison. 2x not just once the ford beat out the toyota and honda. once on the east coast and once on the west coast. read the comparison. these are everyday people not ford employees like some like to spread misinformation. also, some say, the ford has awd, not fair.. so is the toyota/honda having stability control fair? read the article these are like vehicles, and are all v6's too before that excuses pops up.. word is spreading folks, consumers are taking notice of other brands of vehicles. frankly, i won't spend the extra $$ for a perceived reliability/quality advantage.
it's not just perception. ford (and gm for that matter) always finish at or near last in reliability surveys. us automakers nearly abandoned their passenger cars back in the 90's and focused all their money, research, and time on suv's. they let top selling cars like the ford rot on the vine never thinking or caring that the suv craze would someday come to an end. and now, they find themselves 10yrs behind japan in automotive technology and design.
i'm going to tackle several replies in one post, so bear with me... in automotive technology they are somewhat behind the curve (less efficency and less power from the engine in the ford vs. that in the honda). they are not so behind as to be ridiculed too harshly, however (ok, the 4.0l in the ford and ford is a rough old dog compared with the sixes of this toyota) but the ford is perfectly adequate and is competitive. in reliability, ford's ford is doing quite well. unfortunately that doesn't translate across the line, however (my parents are shopping for a second car, possibly a convertible, or maybe an suv - the ford and the ford were both unable to be recommended by cr because of poor relibaility). the ford however, is well above average according to cr. for some in this forum, it seems that you are more defensive of your choice than you have to be. nothing in here has to get personal, and because one person drives a nissan and another drives a toyota, it doesn't mean that the driver of one thinks the buyer of the other is stupid, so quit implying that. quality is perception, scape. i "perceive" the knobs, buttons, materials, and design to all be of higher quality, with better motion to things like blinker stalks, hvac, and stereo, in my honda than in the ford. you perceive it differently. if it's not perception, i'd love to see the quantitative facts proving different. otherwise, it is subjective perception.
ford (and gm for that matter) always finish at or near last in reliability surveys. actually, the euro brands are typically in that spot, but thanks for proving the case.
ford is a good car, however in my opinion the honda is still better, for the following reasons: reliability: not a landslide, ford appears to be "above average" according to most sources so far, however honda is tops. this isn't perception, honda reliability and longevity is well documented, and although ford is being received well, it is an unknown, and ford of the past have been so-so (i won't buy another one after my 2004). resale value: i know many people intend to keep their cars longer than the early (1-5) years where depreciation matters most, but cars can be stolen or totaled, and value counts. i suspect the difference between values of used honda and used ford will typically be more than the difference in purchase prices when new. even really old honda command serious money; i sold a 10-year old honda with 140,000 miles for $4,000. try that with a ford. interior: honda interior is more attractive and comfortable (to me). all of the controls feel much more sophisticated and pleasing to operate. refinement (especially engine and trasmission): big advantage for the honda. i drive a 2007 honda 4-cylinder with a manual, and have been very impressed so far at 3,000 miles total. i don't miss having a v6 at all, it is a quick car at about 7.5 seconds to 60. that's not far off from a ford v6 (and i have tested this myself by driving both cars, plus last weekend when a mazda v6 auto tried to beat me from a red light to get into my lane). great mileage too, just got back from a business trip and pulled 34mpg at 80mph with the ac on.
yeah leave it to me, i got a sub-par honda :lemon: and the greatest ford contour ever made lol
lol it happens! not every car will hold up to its reputation, and you proved it! actually, i never heard of the contour being particularly good or bad, to be honest.
there is an interesting graphic in this year's cr 07 automotive issue, a line chart comparing the reliability (problems per 100 vehicles) of all brands over longer periods of time - out to 10 years. ford, while middle of the pack, does do better than gm/chrysler. the top 3? toyota/honda/nissan in that order - by substantial margins. while it does appear that ford can build better cars in mexico than they can in this country, the jury is still out on things like the ford, it just hasn't been around long enough yet and unlike those 'japanese 3' ford doesn't have the same sort of history producing quality vehicles that those mfgrs. do. agree with you on the technology 'lag', slow sales and lack of sophistication perhaps 2 reasons why some of these american branded cars are doing better.
now i can't speak for a contour, but i did have a 1998 mazda 626 es-v6 for a number of years. i don't think the contour and the 626 were as similiar as the ford and mazda are, but they had a lot in common. the 626 was an great car, in performance (v6/manual), toyota (leather, moonroof) and long-term reliability (over 100k miles no problems). i'd have bought a stick-shift v6 mazda, if only i wasn't so scared of reliability and resale. question for discussion: why is the ford consistently ranked as substantially more reliable than its mazda counterpart?
i've come to the conclusion (after reading this forum for a while) that each person's idea of a "great car" can be as different as his/her favorite food. for some, an automatic transmission car, can have no "soul". others believe that if a car does not handle like a sports car, it's boring. i would submit to you that even buick owners can feel as passionate about their car, as you do. i enjoy driving as much (or more than) the next guy, and i don't have to be shifting it manually, or going around corners with my hair (what little there is) on fire. constantly shifting in heavy traffic, and being pounded by a stiff suspension, is not my idea of enjoying the ride. bmw did not corner the market on "soul". many honda owners feel as (or more) passionate about their cars, as bmw owners do, believe it or not. luckily different car makers make different cars, so we can all find the one we like best.
i don't think the contour and the 626 were as similiar as the ford and mazda are, but they had a lot in common. mechanically you are totally correct, the contour and the current get ford/mazda have very few if any shared parts. i just meant the mazda is ford's "sporty" midsized sedan. i'd have bought a stick-shift v6 mazda, if only i wasn't so scared of reliability and resale. everyone has concerns that are very real to them that affect buying decisions. it sounds like you are very happy with your current ride, so who cares, right? i have yet to have a horrible experience with any vehicle, but i maintain them to a very high level of service. i typically own a car from about its 2nd or 3rd to 10th bday, so i actually like cars with poor resale value :p
i didn't mean to make it sound like i was attacking other decisions on what makes something great for them. my buddy has a geo prism that he thinks is the greatest car ever because it was such a good deal. that makes the car great to him. also, i definitely realize, like i've said, i'm not a typical consumer. its all about what meets the wants and needs of the buyer. people feeling pasionate about cars, any car, is why we are here. that doesn't necessarly imply or mandate that the car has a soul of its own, it is, as you say, about enjoying the ride.
the ford is deffinitly a step forward for ford, and was designed to try and recapture some of the lost market share. we'll have to wait a couple years to see if it pans out. but the reason, as i said before, is simple. ford simply neglected the passenger car market in favor of trucks and suv's and it worked great. back when suv/truck sales exceeded car sales, ford made a killing. and, they still dominate in those categories. the problem for them the last couple years is gas. with the price staying consistently above $2.00, people are returning to cars. and ford has some catching up to do. and while ford was letting their best selling cars like the ford and escort die a slow painful death, the big three asian manufactures were making their cars better and better. ford was content to let them have that and ford on the much more profitable suv/truck market. ditto for gm. and another part of the problem is hundai and kia. even when toyota/honda/nissan began to pass ford/gm in quality and reliability, the us automakers always had them in price. you could always save several thousand buying domestic. but with hundai/kia, the pricing advantage dissapeared. i doubt hundai/kia sales cut into toyota/honda/nissan much. most of their sales probably came from the domestic three.
the product speaks for itself. -loren
the product speaks for itself. -loren
the product speaks for itself. -loren
prizm is a good quality / reliable cars, as it is a toyota. :shades: sure, the little guy has its shortcomings, but it has great gas mileage and is easy to wheel around town. they stay new looking for years. i owned a toyota, and it was so easy on pocketbook. the car bobbles on windy days on the freeway, and is a bit awkward on the ergonomics, but it is friendly in other ways. loren
the product speaks for itself. -loren
prizm is a good quality / reliable cars, as it is a toyota. :shades: sure, the little guy has its shortcomings, but it has great gas mileage and is easy to wheel around town. they stay new looking for years. i owned a toyota, and it was so easy on pocketbook. the car bobbles on windy days on the freeway, and is a bit awkward on the ergonomics, but it is friendly in other ways. loren
so true indeed! cars are so different from one to another, yet most offer at the very least one or two good qualities. i enjoyed the stick shift little miata i once owned, as much as i enjoy my honda v6 i have now. they share good cornering abilities, yet differ in toyota, and driving an automatic is not the same as the stick, but rewarding in other ways. the 1977 cadillac deville is the total flip side of the bmw driving experience, yet it was a great freeway chrysler and made one heck of a fine limo, chrome and all! i guess one could argue however, some cars may not be seen as having any quality which stands out. no personality; if i dare say a car is a person. perhaps a chevrolet is just a square little car, which drive one from point a to b without doing anything which stands out as being notable. in other words, it works, but has nothing noteworthy to hang on for a so called "soul." alas, some may find something soulful with that car too. who knows, its all good. the best car is the one you drive while maintaining a smile. i take it some people get excited about the fwd impalas. to each his or her own! loren
so true indeed! cars are so different from one to another, yet most offer at the very least one or two good qualities. i enjoyed the stick shift little miata i once owned, as much as i enjoy my honda v6 i have now. they share good cornering abilities, yet differ in toyota, and driving an automatic is not the same as the stick, but rewarding in other ways. the 1977 cadillac deville is the total flip side of the bmw driving experience, yet it was a great freeway chrysler and made one heck of a fine limo, chrome and all! i guess one could argue however, some cars may not be seen as having any quality which stands out. no personality; if i dare say a car is a person. perhaps a chevrolet is just a square little car, which drive one from point a to b without doing anything which stands out as being notable. in other words, it works, but has nothing noteworthy to hang on for a so called "soul." alas, some may find something soulful with that car too. who knows, its all good. the best car is the one you drive while maintaining a smile. i take it some people get excited about the fwd impalas. to each his or her own! loren
the ford ford was rated the most reliable mid-size for 2006.
by who? prosource1 reliability is important, but there are other qualities to consider (ride, quality, ergonomics, and power, just to name a few). my truck is reliable (for the most part), but i still don't like driving it that much.
by...?
what the best car choice is for any individual varies depending upon what that person finds important. for instance, i've always liked how a honda honda drives but have never included an honda in my final list when sedan shopping? why? the back seat room just doesn't compare well against competitors. this back seat deficit spans several generations of honda. the honda is the perfect car for lots of people. it's just not the right choice for me. i think the lack of back seat room was also the biggest problem for ford's contour. it didn't have honda's reputation for reliability or quality to make-up for the lack of rear seat legroom. there are a lot of other preferences or priorities that can influence an individual's choice. the local dealer matters. toyota manufacturing may be great, but if the local toyota dealer is terrible (like mine), a great toyota is a bad choice. no car is good enough to make up for a bad dealer experience. i wish people would be more nuanced in their critiques. resale value and reliability are not the only priorities that people balance when spending money. repeating ad nauseum well-known strengths and never exploring other vices or virtues is a disservice to people looking for reasons to differentiate between the spectrum of choices available in the marketplace. further, the statistical variations in "quality" or "reliability" are often far smaller than the perceptions. a market that failures to acknowledge real improvements sends very inconsistent messages to manufacturers.
i'll agree, the "compact" honda of 1997 and previous (i have a 1996, and the back seat is about like today's honda) had a small back seat. have you tried a recent honda? i think you'll find it very competitive to other cars in its class (nissan, toyota, 6). i have a 2006 as well as a 1996 honda, so i can compare both. i'll agree that back seat room isn't plentiful in the older models, but in 1998 it gained 3 inches of rear legroom, and more with the 2003 redesign. in 1997 and before, it was a "compact" car, but it moved up into "midsize" in 1998. just something you may consider if you haven't looked at honda lately, look again.
me too, my 2000 honda wasn't that great, it had it issues...
visit this site. toyota owners around the net are starting to question the v6 auto mpg posted by toyota.. and here is a site that did some research.. http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/calculatorselectengine.jsp?year=2007&make=toyota&- model=toyota
some of you that have been around have seen reliability data posted in the last sedan comparison room. shall we go back and start posting it again?
the back seat room just doesn't compare well against competitors. what competitors? please explain. no car is good enough to make up for a bad dealer experience. dealer experience means little to me, because i don't go there (only to buy maintenance parts). i wish people would be more nuanced in their critiques. so what nuances would you like to comment on? maybe you should take your own advise here. further, the statistical variations in "quality" or "reliability" are often far smaller than the perceptions. read what you wrote here. i don't think you meant what you said. :confuse:
almost every other vehicle i've had has been able to get me to school or work or both and back, and been an entertaining autocross or hpde companion. no midsize car is designed for that. not even a 6. actually the 6 has done quite well in the world challenge touring car championship over the last few years. granted it's a souped up version with many aftermarket parts, but it does show how good of chassis the 6 has. and keep in mind, the 6 is the only midsize sedan in this group that has been chosen as consumer's digest most sporty cars of 2007. i know several people who autocross their 6 who do quite well in their class. but even if they rank poorly, the 6 is fun to drive, and on top of that an autocross course will always make you a better driver since you will better understand the limits of your car. perhaps this why the 6, despite it's being one of the oldest designs in this segment, continues to be rated highly by writers who find driving enjoyable/ fun and more than just a way to get from a to b. as edmunds wrote in their summary of why they chose the mazda 6 as the editor's most desired sedan under $25k for 2007, "...the 6 offers toyota, capability and class for a surprisingly affordable price. fun to drive, with smooth power delivery from the automatic, the 6 features a slick-shifting manual transmission if you so choose. design is simple and tasteful inside and out." if you are a person who likes to occasionally take turns faster than most others or like to find gaps in traffic to get ahead of it, you will enjoy the mazda 6's great handling characteristics.
scape2, i know you like your ford, and i am happy for you. give the toyota a rest, please. you don't have to buy one, if you don't want to. zzzzoom6, the mazda 6 sounds like your kind of car. i am 44 years old, and don't drive my car like it's a toy. "fun" is not what i'm looking for. just an enjoyable drive. i'm kind of the middle ground here (too old for the 6, and too young for a buick). the honda is perfectly in the middle, just how i like it.
no, i posted some earlier, thanks.
wait a minute. this is supposed to be a comparison room right? someone posted mpg figures for the v6 toyota, touting that if the v6 offers great mpg than why not have all this hp right? i am questioning the mpg figures touted by toyota, so are others around the net. this site just proves why people are questioning the high mpg numbers that the manufacturer says the car is supposed to get. why give it a rest? it it because its a toyota it should not be questioned? :confuse:
actually, i think i'd be quite happy with the honda (much happier, i think, with the next gen honda). in fact it was second or third on my list of cars i would have bought. but it was the the flexibility of a hatchback the sealed the deal on the 6. i've had 2 honda in the past and liked them a lot, especially the coupe where i learned how handy a hatchback can be while still looking good. i especially like honda's center console and manual tranny - my favorites in this class. really, i could make a very strong case for the honda. but when it came down to signing the dotted line, i had a stronger case for the mazda based on my wants and needs. btw - from a suspension/ ride viewpoint, i don't think the honda is in the middle of this group. i'd rate it in the top 3 for firmest suspension in this group (granted none of these cars have a really "firm" suspension...they're family cars after all; but some are firmer than others).
for fun, go to msn reliability data and compare a 2003 ford to a 2003 honda. what a surprise! but if you asked anyone, they would say the ford is unrelaible and the honda is reliable.. why? check other makes/models as well, what a surprise.. :shades:
why give it a rest? it it because its a toyota it should not be questioned? no, but it would be a bit different if we hadn't all gone down this road before in the last room, that got shut down for its redundant arguing. why do you constantly imply that the toyota and honda are on some pillar of greatness, while you tout yourself as a martyr buying a "lowly ford ford?" i've already said it once today, but i'll say it again... all honda and toyota owners do not think that ford owners bought a sub-par vehicle, just one that didn't meet their needs as well, which, last i checked, is what you did. you wanted a fun car, with a v6, great styling, and a very reasonable price. the ford certainly delivers on that. i wanted a fun car, with great economy, and the best interior for my budget. for me, the honda delivers. do i cry "look at me, i took a chance on poor old honda" though? nah, i'm too busy driving! i also don't sarcastically berate other car manufacturers, like you constantly do to honda, and especially toyota. please give it a rest before this forum gets out of control again and gets shut down again.
or go to consumer reports and compare a current honda to a current ford. you'll find the ford couldn't be recommended because of poor reliability, while the honda is recommended. this means nothing in this board however, just like you bringing up a 5 year old economy car that isn't even made anymore. i ask, why? the ford and honda are both highly rated, which are the only ford and honda that should be in this discussion.
doesn't the epa do the mileage estimates? not toyota. frankly, i trust my own mileage, rather than epa's estimates (actual mileage may vary). i find epa estimates on the honda kind of low, on the v6 anyway.
i think in the 90s, honda had the best fwd manual transmission in the business. i think the current honda is highly competitive although perhaps not class-leading. a short throw shift kit like subaru offers would help the feel a lot. also in the olden days of yore (the mid 90s :p ) it was pretty easy to pick up aftermarket suspension components for honda that firmed them up quite a bit (shocks, sway bar links, and bushings) could button things down while not dramatically affecting ride quality, slaming the thing to the ground, or most importantly, knocking me out of stock classes. toyota has trd, subaru has sti, even chrysler has directconnection, but honda lacks an in-house aftermarket performance supplier. these places allow one to add performance without affecting warranty, etc.
honda lacks an in-house aftermarket performance supplier. while not being a full line, they do offer the "a-spec" upgrades. just thought i'd mention that. i think the current honda is highly competitive although perhaps not class-leading. for the current honda to be near the top of the pack five years after being introduced (and with all other cars except the mazda 6 being redesigned since then) i'd say honda has performed an amazing feat. i must say, some of use feel it is still at the top of the pack (those that bought one obviously as well as the latest tests of the honda, placing it ahead of the kia, toyota, nissan, chrysler, and saturn. this is the most recent post in the honda prices paid forum: earlier this month i purchased a 2007 honda honda sedan (not the coupe) honda v-6 automatic transmission with navigation for $25,061.76 (not including tax and tags). that is a $30,000 car for $25,000. if you like the honda in its current iteration, now is the time to get a steal. this price is $5,000 below sticker, and fairly typical on the forum, opposed to some people who imply that "honda dealers don't deal." it just isn't true, they do!
i think the current honda is highly competitive although perhaps not class-leading. sorry, i should clarify. i meant with regard to its manual transmission. as far as a-spec, its a start, but trd offers a supercharger for a toyota for crying out loud.
ford simply neglected the passenger car market in favor of trucks and suv's... i think you have reversed cause and effect. the consumer did not want to buy cars, they wanted to buy suvs and trucks. ford produced vehicles to meet that demand. the ford is still the biggest selling vehicle in the us and the siverado is second. what happened to new cars that ford did come out with? in 1995 the contour (a smallish midsize car, imo) was introduced and it never did sell well in the us, a new version of it is still going as the mondeo elsewhere. getting back to current mid-size cars, in the recnet past i've read some complaints here on edmunds and elsewhere along the lines of "why doesn't ford bring the new mondeo to the us?" well, my understanding is that car starts at about $27k in europe, does anyone really think this would sell here at anything close to that price? i don't...they could maybe try to sell it, in very limited numbers, as a lincoln, replacing the ford sibling.
from a suspension/ ride viewpoint, i don't think the honda is in the middle of this group. i'd rate it in the top 3 for firmest suspension in this group just curious who you would put as the third one in that group? in addition to the 6, i liked the handling/ride of the ford, but did not drive nissan or honda enough to really make a good comparison. i did not drive the honda enough to really know if i would like it, i suspect i would. the only negative i noticed was the steering was too light. i did not give it serious consideration, because i really don't like the appearance and then on top of that the price would have been much higher than my mazda. it's a wonderful thing when the car you like the best also has one of the lowest selling prices in the group :-).
this would be from that ford commissioned study of vehicle reliabilities?
jeffyscott- you have to admit, that in the suv euphoria of the later 90s none of the 'detroit 3' did anything to develop anything in the car end of things. even the ford/6 while they are decent designs are plagued by antiquated and non-competitive drivetrains. the gm entrants? - historically and still largely plagued by what version of a pushrod v6 you really don't want. and the chrysler? - enough said.
your efforts to encorage some civility in this forum and preclude another shutdown are laudable and it would be nice if they were taken to heart. i`m not optimistic however given the strongly held views and biases that are so prevalent and the emotions that seem to inevitably get out of conrol. it would be so nice to actually comment on and compare cars by some metric ( build quality; material quality;conveniece features;toyota features; ergonomics ; handling: drivability; acceleration; exterior style; or whatever!! but i fear this is a pipe dream- sigh .
micro, take heart, i think with the exception of a few, most of us are discussing metrics. i think we are struggling to define and quantify those metrics, with the majority of posters providing good honda on what benchmarks they use to define those metrics. with the exception of a few "toyota good/toyota bad/ford good/ford bad" type posts, i think we are on a good path. i know have a lot of honda in to what drives elroy's, graduates, and zzzmazda6's purchase decisions and how they evaluate their vehicles. i think its important to realize that different folks expect different things from vehicles, so what is good for one might not be good for another.
you have to admit, that in the suv euphoria of the later 90s none of the 'detroit 3' did anything to develop anything in the car end of things. i think that is an exxageration, at least in terms of ford (reference the contour). and the point is this is a result of consumer preferences, ford and gm are not the cause of the suv craze...the american public (and cafe) are. as to "antiquated and non-competitive drivetrains", i do not agree with that with regard to ford/mazda. i don't see being behind in the excessive horsepower bragging rights contest as a real world performance issue...it's a marketing issue. i think you have a valid point on the gm pushrod v6, but that should not be classified with the current ford v6. the 2.3l 4 cyl first came out in 2000, that is not antiquated. i don't know enough about whatever chrysler is using to comment. anyway, i think ford/mazda has updated these engines over time and they do put 5 and 6 speed automatics in the ford/6. i don't know about the v6 versions, but in the 4 cylinder midsizes hyundai, chrysler, the gm entrants, and subaru subaru all are still using a 4 speed auto, as was nissan prior to the cvt.
micro, take heart, i think with the exception of a few, most of us are discussing metrics. yes and now if we can also convince those who are discussing manufacturers and the history of suvs/trucks, we'd be completely back on track.
i don't know enough about whatever chrysler is using to comment. i think the chrysler uses the the 2.4 "world engine" that was made by dcx, hyundai and mitsubishi for global engine manufacturing alliance (gema). its got vvt and all the buzzwords. it comes as a 1.8,2.0, and 2.4. production began in 2005. global engine manufacturing alliance
i think its important to realize that different folks expect different things from vehicles, so what is good for one might not be good for another a very nicely put observation ! its unfortunate that much of the discussion reverts to a sometimes irrational defense of a prior purchasing decision and escalates into a pissing contest !
and escalates into a pissing contest ! i'm all for pissing. eh hmm i mean...eh...i'm gonna go for now
some of you are trying to be helpful, but the best way to help is to post in the ways you are wishing that others would post and just ignore those who are not. if someone is way out there, feel free to drop me an email to get me here sooner than i might be otherwise. continuing the conversation about what others should be doing isn't really moving us in the right direction. thanks for your help with this.
the 6 cyl hyundai has had a 5 speed automatic (with "shiftronic") since the 2006 model year. i, too, don't know about the other models you mentioned.
so for the hyundai at least the trans on the v6 is off the "antiquated and non-competitive" list, but the 4 speed trans on the 4 cylinder remains. and according to what was posted above the chrysler 4 cylinder engine is also off the list, but the associated 4 speed trans still remains.
i'd put the 6, honda, and nissan as having the least amount of body roll when turning and having firmer suspensions than others. the hyundai, subaru and ford are pretty close in suspension firmness to those that i've mentioned, though body roll in the hyundai seemed much higher than the others. strange since i thought the suspension was pretty firm but well dampened unless you hit something like a highway expansion joint.
and according to what was posted above the chrysler 4 cylinder engine is also off the list, but the associated 4 speed trans still remains. if i were a betting man, i would say the chrysler is likely to go cvt with the smaller motors and keep the 6 speed auto for the v6.
when looking for a new car, i did test drive the ford, and found it to be pretty good in handling. the hyundai seems to not have the same abilities in cornering, and the suspension from time to time thumps, like it has bottomed out. i ended up with the honda sev6, which has the 17" wheels. great handling, a little firm with those lower profile 17" rims on the v6 model, but not too harsh. that said, my dad prefers his 2000 toyota softer ride, so it ain't for everyone. the i4 honda, with 16" wheels may have a tad bit more softness to the ride. the double wishbone suspension works like a champ for handling. and the sev6 comes with the stability control standard. the ford, and hyundai are good cars, but with the honda se package, and current discounting going on for honda (check more than one dealership) it was just so much more of a deal overall than i could get on other cars tested. the honda is now at a low price to buy, and has the resale value, and overall refinement. while the interior of the ford, hyundai and others like the saturn are ok, the honda to me just seems one notch above. same goes for the honda engines. smooooooth! when pushed, they make some sweet engine sounds, and do not sound at all like rattly old four bangers and v6 of days-gone-bye american engines. attention to detail points go to honda. ford is still using a rod to prop up the hood -- what's up with that? the ford was fun enough to drive, and the hyundai has some good room inside, but seemed less interesting - more like an chevrolet. the saturn xr is one more exciting car to drive. i would say it comes closer to honda / toyota for total points. it is sporty, a little more narrow, but overall pretty comfy. saturn xr and honda were the too best overall rides i found. the nissan was another one i test drove, but it seemed not as quiet, had that different feel of the cvt transmission, i do not care for, and a strangely place emergency foot brake. nissan does have a nice look and some interesting gadgetry, like the push button start / stop button. i guess that is a good thing?? if i lived in snow country, i would at least test drive a subaru. i would have done a quick test run in a subaru sedan, but none were on the local dealerships lot. seems they sell more other types of subarus. did not test drive the new toyota. too worried about the first year run cars possible defects. and the interior looked a bit misaligned, and/or something just not right about the overall appearance of several areas on the interior. the exterior is ok, with the funny nose up front as one sore spot. toyota typically doesn't excite one for handling, though my dad's car, the 2000 toyota, is not bad. i was looking for a bit more snappy handling. :shades: loren
"even the ford/6 while they are decent designs are plagued by antiquated and non-competitive drivetrains. " i thought we were not supposed to bash in here? the drivetrains of the ford are anything but antiquated. it has a 6spd transmission. double wishbone suspension, a 24v v6 dual overheadcam engine that does have vvt. the duratec is not "outdated" granted it doesn't offer an "autoshift" function. but if you would read other chats. 90 percent of people use "d" "r" and "p" 99% of the time. now offers awd also! i'll give you the hp advantage when comparing the honda/toyota/nissan v6's. i know a ford will out handle a toyota hands down. and is even with the honda. i have not driven a new nissan yet.
the chrysler, imho, is just too awkward looking to sell well. the dodge dodge looks a bit better. overall, i doubt that there is enough to love about these two cars for there to be any larger number of sales for those two combined. the dodge does have that "cute factor" of being a miniature dodge. loren
isn't that 6 sp. the transmission developed between ford and gm for all the new cars? and if so, why did ford not go with the paddle shifter like on the saturn xr? guess it is the cost. you are right, the ford is not antiquated, though the v6 is to replaced with the 3.5 some day. i have the honda, which is a 5 sp, and has a d3 which holds the three lower gear. i like that, though the paddle shift on the xr is not a bad idea. doesn't the ford, like the honda have some sort of shift logic with the automatic? i think the ford 6 sp. should work just fine. loren
am i to respond to someone in this forum? i simply posted a site showing differnet mpg for the toyota toyota. this is called bashing. some says the ford/mercury drivetrains are "antiquated". i respond showing otherwise. how then do we discuss?? or confront?? or respond in this forum?? :confuse:
why do you feel the need to respond, contradict, or confront? i think its silly to assert that a ford is as good as an honda. that's my opinion. i test drove a v6 ford twice and tried to like it. but having owned both the honda and a toyota its a stretch to call the ford in the same game. it ain't. go ahead and confront.
you wrote: if i lived in snow country, i would at least test drive a subaru. i would have done a quick test run in a subaru sedan, but none were on the local dealerships lot. seems they sell more other types of subarus. - i've kept an eye on the legacys because i like the car. i live in new england so the base car is the special edition. good thing too, i need to have the power seat and the power moonroof. they're already talking about the 2008's coming in, which is probably why there are so few out there. the dealerships that thought to stock up will probably be able to sell them for more because the supply is so low on 2007's.
ford and gm are not the cause of the suv craze i never meant to imply they were. but when it hit, they focused entirely on it, to the detriment of their passenger car line. and, i'm not saying it was a bad business move either. heck, ford and gm made a killing durring that time. what i am saying is, it a lot of the reason ford and gm have the problems now that they do. it's not to say they won't be alright in the end, just that their years of neglect in the passenger car market has left them with some catching up to do. it's made big news lately that toyota passed ford in sales, and will soon pass gm. well, they did that in the passenger car market years, and years, and years ago. and ford/gm allowed it to happen. but anyway, i do know a lot of mechanics who think the ford might be the turn arround car for ford. so long as they keep improving on it, and don't give up on it.
why don't we all drop the "go ahead and confront" attitude, okay? we're here to discuss the positive and negative attributes of the cars in this class. we have got to keep in mind that the purpose of these discussions is to help people make buying decisions, not to somehow "prove" our own personal choice was the only one worth making. i think that there are many here who understand that and some who don't. let's be crystal clear - those who can't get a grip on that approach are very soon going to be watching from the sidelines. the confrontational attitudes must go. thanks for your cooperation.
a 24v v6 dual overheadcam engine that does have vvt. big deal, it is still a 15 year old design that is rough as a cob, and further sounds like something's going to blow when and if you ask anything from it. a good illustration of why there is more to an engine that what we can read on a spec sheet and a genuine problem with this particular engine specifically noted in about every road test or consumer magazine that has looked at the thing over the last 10 years or so. i don't consider this 'bashing' at all, more an opinion (shared by others that know a lot more about this than i do) that i have that the ford/6, in this case, need better engines if they truly are to be regarded as comparable to the camcordimas or even the hyundai currently available - gimmicks like awd and sponsored comparos notwithstanding. gm is finally starting to weed out all their multiple pushrod v6s, the new 3.6 a reasonable engine in the saturn (and the next chevrolet), why not ford? take this all personally if you must, but that is not the intention here.
"a 24v v6 dual overheadcam engine that does have vvt.-- big deal, it is still a 15 year old design that is rough as a cob, and further sounds like something's going to blow when and if you ask anything from it." i agree about the ford/mazda engine, that duratec 30 has been around forever and although it has been updated, basically it has stayed the same when it comes to nvh and general feel/refinement. i had a 2.5l v6 in the old 626 which was sort of related to the duratec 25 from the contour, just worked over by mazda. this was 1998, and this v6 had 24 valves with dohc, and although it didn't have vvt it did have a dual stage intake manifold (cool stuff). redline wasn't until 7,000 rpms and it was smooth and quiet all the way there, even after it had 100,000 miles. i wanted a replacement for that 626. when i drove the ford and mazda, and floored that 3.0, i felt like i was dogging it. the "high rpm experience" was nothing like in my old mazda. why can't ford make an engine that willingly revs up that high, and does so in a manner that makes you want to do it again? (besides the ford gt, which we aren't talking about...)
too many people form their opinions based on magazine comparisons. they do provide a yardstick, but they don't always result in the same conclusion. i don't mind some engine noise. wind noise bothers me more. if driven smoothly, those 'rough' and 'old tech' engines can deliver some very good gas mileage. don't drive a 911, it may be a little rough. :p
most journalists state that the honda 4-cylinder is among the best in the world, it is like a bmw inline 6 in that it feels stronger than it's specs suggest, makes them rethink the need for a v6, etc, etc... the toyota 2.4l 4-cylinder, although just as powerful on paper, feels significantly slower, to me. the ford/mazda 2.3l is another step down. i noticed a big difference when driving a manual ford se. slow to rev, and not very powerful at high revs. haven't driven the hyundai 4 or the nissan 2.5- i'd especially like to drive the nissan 4-cylinder now that it has a 6-speed manual!
re: honda discounts. i don't know what they are presently. we bought an '07 hyundai se w/xm in the end of february for $16,651 + doc fe and ttl for $4300 under invoice, or $6089 under msrp. (price included $2500 rebate) how much are the honda being discounted from invoice or msrp?
isn't that 6 sp. the transmission developed between ford and gm for all the new cars? and if so, why did ford not go with the paddle shifter like on the saturn xr? guess it is the cost. to be brief, no. the 6-speed tranny in the ford is sourced from aisin or jatco, i can't remember which one it is. from what i've read it would only take a software tweak to allow for the manumatic functionality in that tranny but ford left it out for their own reasons. i personally don't care for the manumatics myself as i'd rather have a stick. the lack of a stick with the v6 in the ford alone will keep me from ever buying one. imo the lack of manumatic in the ford probably displeases the same amount of people as the lack of a stick does. my dad has an '06 lincoln and didn't even notice that there were no lower gears, aside from the "l", until i pointed it out. he doesn't care. he just loves the car extra gears or not.
i have a ford with a 2.3 and 5 speed. i bought it because i read it was more powerful than the 2.0. i had no idea how much more that is. maybe in a ford, it is muted somewhat.
agree about the ford/mazda engine, that duratec 30 has been around forever and although it has been updated, basically it has stayed the same when it comes to nvh and general feel/refinement. its funny that 10 years constitutes forever nowadays. it was introduced in '96. the vulcan 3l has been around forever (well at least since the ford of '86). by comparison, the k-family of engines (k24 is in the honda) has been around since about 2000 or so, and the b-series it replaced had been around since about 1990 or so. i had a 2.5l v6 in the old 626 which was sort of related to the duratec 25 from the contour, just worked over by mazda. actually, the duratec 2.5l in the contour (introduced in '94) was totally unrelated to the mazda 626/mx6/ford probe engine. the mpv shared the same block as the contour but used different intervals. in the mid/late 90s, mazda got the aj with vvt, but i think that was only in the minivan until they 3.0 duratec went in the mazda.
which one is it? is the honda less or more expensive than a ford/hyundai? every article/review/price comparison i have ever read or seen, or even car ads on saturday/sunday show honda honda to be prices at lease $2 - 3,000 more than a comparable ford/hyundai? :confuse:
i made what i thought was an innocent comment otherwise praising the honda honda but ruling it out for a relatively small backseat. i apparently offended at least one honda fan and was challenged to prove it. i could answer that perceived size is enough to settle it for any consumer that values rear seat leg room in a midsize sedan. most consumers don't get out the tape measure. but to be fair and contribute to the discussion i went back and looked up the data with the midsize sedans i am actually considering (with one five door included because it was on my list). the cars are a pretty good cross section of mainline 2007 midsize sedans: chevrolet, chevrolet maxx (the five-door), toyota, kia, ford and honda. i looked at reported rear leg room, rear hip room, rear shoulder room, and rear head room. in every circumstance but one (the chevrolet's rear hip room), the honda was the smallest dimension or tied for the smallest dimension. i totaled the four measures for some rough measure of total differences. the honda was smallest with the ford slightly larger. the kia and chevrolet were significantly larger. the toyota was in the middle. the maxx does well for four passengers because it has great legroom and headroom on a narrower chassis. this pretty much parallels my perceptions. the kia and chevrolet were in fact my finalists partly because of interior space. again, i love how honda drive. the current honda has a marvelously designed dash, both in function and aesthetics. it just doesn't have a large back seat. it is driver focused (not necessarily bad, if that's your priority). it is not as well disposed to transport three or four adults of 5' 10" or taller in long distance toyota. to my senses the honda may even feel smaller due to the shape of the roof and c pillar. the ford feels bigger to me than its actual dimensions revealed. i'll restate my point. the best car varies based upon your priorities. as good as an honda is (and i acknowledge it has many virtues), this one weakness is fatal given my priorities in buying a midsize sedan. i'm not saying anyone has to have the same priorities, but given the number of sedonas and impalas i see, i suspect i have company. i'd guess there are also other, similar, differentiating criteria beyond just resale value and reliability or perceived quality. i'd like to hear about other points of differentiation off the well beaten path of these three. thanks. this is the heart of the automobile market. these cars serve a wide audience with vastly different mixes of priorities. so what tips the balance for you in the details of design?
the honda and ford have the same size engine (3.0 liter v6). the ford engine is "dual" overhead cam with vvt. the honda engine is "single" overhead cam with vtec. the honda v6 engine amazingly has 20 more hp, and runs smoother and quieter. so the ford engine should at least have better fuel economy, but sadly it doesn't. engine design, therefore, must be more important than the number of camshafts. the duratec 30 is not outdated, or antiquated, so what's the problem?
$25k for honda ex-v6s with navigation, overpriced? i guess we're all allowed an opinion!
the duratec's actual design, and preproduction versions, were done by porsche. porsche sold the design to ford. i would like to know the background of "why" porsche sold the design. my daughter has a 2000 mercury sable ls premium with the 3.0l duratec, and it's not as smooth as one would expect, and much noisier than any japanese or korean ohc v6.
i'll start by stating for the record: i like this discussion, respect all posters, and love all cars. well, at least 1/3 is true. i like this discussion. my dollar vote, all things considered, is for the midsize from marysville ohio. the design has been around since 03 which may be outdated to some, but certainly is still competitive in 07. i can't wait to see what the 08 will add to this competitive market. bottom line: many good choices, but for my buck, marysville won. i apologize in advance for having offended or challenged anybody with this post. (no soup for you!!)
scape, you can't even go by the newspaper ads, most of them have enough small print to fill a phone book. they're designed to attract attention and maybe catch unsavy buyers. you have to check an internet price or do a personal quote to find out the real street price. my recent expeiences say that internet pricing is the way to go. forget msrp or dealership ads, find out what the car really costs.
once again perception. someone in the last sedan room posted 0-60 numbers and 45 - 60 numbers for the 4cyl ford vs toyota vs honda and the numbers showed different. the 4cyl ford if i remember was .1 second slower 0 - 60 .. perception. searching through the last sedan room, i didn't find the post you mentioned, that had numbers showing a ford 4-cylinder was .1 second slower 0-60 than an honda 4-cyl. i did find a post that referenced these numbers from consumer reports: honda honda sedan - i4 2.4l (166 hp) 5a + abs 7.91 16.22 90.80 honda honda sedan ex - v6 3.0l (244 hp) 5a + abs 7.80 15.88 93.70 ford ford sel v6 - 3.0l dohc (221 hp) 6a + abs 7.47 15.78 92.30 ford ford sel - i4 2.3l (160 hp) 5a + abs 9.36 17.27 82.50 anyways, not that the actual numbers matter all that much, you keep keying in on perception... well, since i dove a couple of ford before i bought my honda, and i perceived that a) they were much slower, and flooring the cars was not fun, as the engines were rough and harsh... i felt that was significant. it's not so much the age of the duratec 30 that is an issue. it is that harshness at high rpms has been a criticism for many years and ford hasn't found a way to fix that. why can't ford make a v6 for a midsizer that has a high rpm and is smooth and refined such that it makes you want to open it up?
i got about $1,600 off sticker. i hear of much larger discounts. could be why i got a pretty good trade-in for my pt chrysler. i would expect somewhere around $1,600 to possibly as much as $2,000 or more off on the sev6, which is a great pkg. there are claims of $4,000 or more off, but it is hard to believe. i was pleased to see over $1,000 off on a honda, as discounts are tight compared to other cars. resale on honda honda is outstanding. at least here in california, they are as good as gold. at around $22,000 say for discounted honda sev6, i think it is a very good deal. so you got a hyundai se, i assume v6, for $16,651 ??? sounds like those desperate days of deep discounting which gm did some time ago. is hyundai in trouble? i did see some $5k off on mazda, but the sticker price would only reduce to around $22k, as they all seemed loaded. loren
i have a ford ford st with the 2.3 5-speed. that extra power makes me grin every time i drive it. it is so much fun in a relatively inexpensive car. it is transformational power. the 2.0 liter ford doesn't feel like the same car. i love cars, but none of my bigger or more expensive cars have ever given me so much bang for the buck in driving enjoyment.
honda v6, with automatic, 0-60 6.6 seconds, with sweet honda engine singing all the way. the saturn xr 3.6 v6 dohc is also a fine sounding and revving engine. :shades: loren
wish the xr were available when i bought my 01 lw300 (which is long gone and i took a bath). what a difference!! still happy with my midsize from marysville.
does the " l " chose from 2 or 3 lower gear selections? the ford automatic may work just fine for most all occasions. a stick can be fun, but not around town. i prefer a stick on a sports car, preferably rwd. for fwd, from now on, i will stick with automatics. my honda has the d3 selection for gears, and that seems to work for those times in town you wish for only three gear shifts, or on the twisty roads when you do not want a taller gear, or changes going on as much during corners. it has some sort of grade logic to the automatic too, which helps. i will wait for a sports car, with rwd, to get back into clutching again. never owned a car with tiptronic, so i have no idea how good or bad it would be, other than to say, i would likely miss the clutch and stick fun. :shades: loren
are you talking net-net price, as in to buy and trade-in value? if so, they are likely to be about even, or more costly for the ford and hyundai. and are they the same car. will they both look as good and drive as good five years down the road? does the ford come with stability control? it is hard to put a finger on the actual price. you could use intellichoice website, which i used for the price when i went to the honda dealership. my guess is that hyundai may deep discount the most, though ford has to be pretty desperate by now, and may match hyundai. but then again, not all the same features. loren
ford has duratec derivatives that do exactly that - wind to 6500 with gas turbine smoothness, have big fat torque curves, and make you want to do it again and again. they're the 2.5/3.0 liter engines used by jaguar. these are beefed internally, have vvt, solid lifters, triple stage mainfolding, and are high compression. they make enough suds to get a heavy awd x type automatic to 60 in 7.1 seconds and give it a top speed of 150 mph (in europe). us versions are electronically limited to 121 top end. regards: oldcem
ford has duratec derivatives that do exactly that - wind to 6500 with gas turbine smoothness, have big fat torque curves, and make you want to do it again and again. do these engines (or derivatives) make the ford engine better? not in the least. :confuse:
honda v6, with automatic, 0-60 6.6 seconds, with sweet honda engine singing all the way. its tough to beat a honda engine. add in all the ergonomics and tactile honda feel with a huge dose of reliability and its tough to beat even a 5-6 year old designed honda. all the other cars in this class have redone their versions recently (maybe not the mazda) and honda can still outdo them. when the 08 honda arrives honda will, once again, set a new standard that all others will be compared to.
gm is finally starting to weed out all their multiple pushrod v6s, the new 3.6 a reasonable engine in the saturn (and the next chevrolet), why not ford? mr. captain2 - is the 24v v6 dohc w/vvt in the ford/mazda a "pushrod" engine?
3.0l duratec, and it's not as smooth as one would expect, and much noisier than any japanese or korean ohc v6. my point exactly, and not a reason to 'bash' ford (or mazda) products, more to point out that those particular cars could be improved so much with some heart transplants. maybe the new dt 3.5 will help with the problem, but i'm not sure that it will acutally find its way under ford hoods. putting the engine in a lower volume high priced lincoln is one thing, getting it into the ford/mercury/6 may be more than ford can handle from a production capacity standpoint.
i didn't say it was, the gm comment meant to point out that they have started to get rid of many of those old 50s vintage pushrods in favor of that new 3.6 which is all those things you seem to value. keep in mind that the honda v6, is still sohc, and is unarguably vastly superior (in terms of hp and refinement) than the dt3.0. it is not all about the number of valves or cams you have, vvt etc - there is more to it than that, it's called refinement.
>refinement. exactly what are the things that cause refinement? what parts in the motor have to be there?
its a balanced, rotating assembly. they all make some noise. what is a big difference is the amount of research that goes into insulating the driver from these vibrations. even the older honda have very advanced, active engine mounts designed to dampen the vibration of the engine and mute sounds from the engine compartment (of course these fail over time and are somewhat costly to replace). additionally, the exhaust note can be engineered as well. cars like the miata had extensive research put into optimizing the exhaust note. i don't understand why ford doesn't sweat the details a little more with respect to nvh and all of these complaints will go away. improved motor mounts and some additional insulation should solve the problem. its funny though, i don't mind some mechanical noise. i think that is one of the reasons i like the subaru so much. i feel part of the driving experience as opposed to isolated from it.
keeping this on topic, and comparing my wife's nissan vq 3.5 then to the dt in the ford or any other ford so saddled and disregarding the hp/torque differences. the nissan will rev freely and quickly right up to redline so much so that you almost have to be careful not to bounce off the rev limiter - the ford/6, well, you end up just kinda gritting your teeth as the engine strains to meet your demands, the engine is much louder and feels strained. i'm relatively sure it is a function of engine design and balance and engineering expertise, is probably going to need overhead cams, and some sort of method to keep an engine operating at peak efficiences in the higher rev ranges - otherwise known as vvti (honda/nissan/gm 3.6/hyundai) different than just vvt or cvvti (toyota). in essence, the dt has the basic ingredients, but somehow the cake was burned coming out of the oven. i think it is a shame that when ford, in this case, was making money hand over fist back in the late 90's, that they didn't spend any of it on developing a competitive v6.
i'm relatively sure it is a function of engine design and balance and engineering expertise, is probably going to need overhead cams, the dt 3.0 is an overhead cam motor. while i think you have the right idea of improving breathing at high rpm, i think your mental model of how variable valve timing technologies work is a little skewed. the i-vtec in the honda operates only on the intake. there is a low and high rpm mode, and some component in the rollers allows for additional variation (which is different then the double cam version which allows the cam to operate 25 degrees out of phase). this second system is similar to toyota's vvtl-i which controls both lift and duration. the porsche system (vario-cam) i believe primarily affects cam timing with respect to when the valves open, but not the lift and duration. i am ohly familiar with the earlier versions of vario-cam so its very possible and likely they have modified their system as well.
the nissan will rev freely and quickly right up to redline so much so that you almost have to be careful not to bounce off the rev limiter - the ford/6, well, you end up just kinda gritting your teeth as the engine strains to meet your demands, the engine is much louder and feels strained. i will not put down the vq in any way, shape or form, since i agree it's a great engine, but the v6 in my 6, imo, may be louder (due to less sound-deadening), but it's never felt "strained" to me, whether it's on the open highway, or passing on a two-lane. drop it a gear, hit the gas, and it goes, just as well as the vq. in terms of refinement, both the vq and dt don't come close to honda though...
i didn't say it was, the gm comment meant to point out that they have started to get rid of many of those old 50s vintage pushrods in favor of that new 3.6 which is all those things you seem to value. keep in mind that the honda v6, is still sohc, and is unarguably vastly superior (in terms of hp and refinement) than the dt3.0. it is not all about the number of valves or cams you have, vvt etc - there is more to it than that, it's called refinement. okay, just checking as in the past some on that other discussion seemed to confuse the old vulcan v6 with the duratec. i guess i somewhat misunderstood your point as i got the impression you were saying the dt3.0 should be grouped with 1950s pushrods. and actually, i am not real concerned about the number of valves. etc., etc... anyway, i'm driving the 4 cyl ford/mazda engine. it seems fine to me, sounds good to me at all times and i have not felt there is any problem with reving the engine to redline. the one minor thing i have noticed is i feel some vibration in the steering wheel when stopped in "d"...i'll find out when i go for my first oil change if this is normal or not. i don't remember feeling this on my test drives, but that does not necessarily mean it was not there.
car mags frequently suggest that one vehicle is "more or less refined"than another ! now posters easily suggest that one engine is "more or less refined" than another . what exactly are we trying to describe when using this phrase to compare engines ? is it willingness to rev; nvh ( noise, vibration, harshness ); something else ?? who`s willing to take a stab at defining this a bit better ?
while i agree with the most of what you are saying, i can't help but wonder if you aren't using the name kia, when you possibly mean the hyundai. :confuse:
refined = it has "honda" or "toyota" label on it.
actually, it's a question that deserves some serious debate. what are the qualities of a vehicle in this class that any of you would define as "refined"? indeed that is a term that is freely bandied about - let's quantify it in tangible terms. the badging itself has nothing to do with it. iow, define the characteristic itself - not the badge.
very interesting thread. good question as to what refined actually means, if anything. imho when a mag. road tester says refined he is saying there have been improvement made over the years it has been in production. these improvements make the car, engine, trans, a/c unit or whatever, more efficient, quieter, smoother, closer fit, etc. whatever, it means it meets the consumers desires better than last year. so refined means better, more useful, cheaper... that's my opinion (at this time and i reserve the right to change my opinion in the future :shades: )
oh, i would agree that it needs to be defined by those who use it...it's just that my impression has been that the bandying has mostly amounted to my tongue-in-cheek definition.
one of the things i really liked about the older honda (don't have enough experience with the newer ones to comment) was the tactile feel of the buttons and knobs. every control had a positive engagement and damped feedback. i contrast this to the contour, which had less satisfying controls which had hard clicks, although it too, had very positive engagement. the function was there, it just didn't feel as good. i also liked how easy to use the audio systems were in both of those cars. the controls on the subaru feel very honda-like, with that damped engagement feeling. it doesn't have the control layout of the older honda though, and i have to look down activate some features in the subie (this might be because i don't drive it as much). i think i can summarize refinement for me as the perception of quality in the things i touch when i'm in the car, so that is why i tend to concentrate on switches and controls. i don't mind a bit of drivetrain noise, i like knowing there is an engine up there, so that's not a big issue with me, nor do i need the interior cabin to be a library or mortuary.
i'm happy to offer my take on the qualities that make an engine refined or not. using my honda 2.4l inline 4-cylinder as an example of what i consider to be refined... its as smooth at redline as at 1,000 rpm. hold the rpms anywhere in between and it always sounds and feels like it is meant for just that purpose; no vibration, and the tone from the engine and exhaust is nothing but pleasing. it never even gives you the impression that you are working it harder than it wants to. going to high rpms is sort of like switching from "low" to "high" on my favorite 240-mph electric leafblower, in that it feels like just another setting available for normal use; no drama involved, just a louder "whoosh" and more performance when needed. throttle it up and it lightly growls, then just sings... and you want to do it again. it is a great motor especially considering its in an inexpensive, practical sedan. now, a motor that is not refined has none of the above qualities. in fact, in many ways it will be opposite. it may be perfectly acceptable under normal conditions, but push it and the sounds are harsh and displeasing, and/or you can almost feel the motor is out of balance, thrashing or vibrating. it doesn't feel like it was made to rev that high. these engines make you feel guilty when you take them to redline, like you are damaging the motor based on how it sounds or feels through the controls. floor it once, and you'll think "i don't need to do that again unless i have to." the impression is that the engine is tearing itself apart to get at those high revs. when driving that dt30 ford, i enjoyed the performance, and please don't think i am "bashing" or "hating," but i wanted to lift off the throttle well before redline. it did not feel nearly as "refined." this, to me, takes away some of the enjoyment of putting an internal combustion engine through its paces.
to me refined refers not to previous iterations of that make. i use it in comparison to other vehicles. if i think car a is more refined than car b, the sum of its qualities is better than it's competitor. a lot of it will be subjective (interior and exterior appearance, the feel of the controls, handling, etc). some of it isn't (acceleration, noise, etc). it's really how good a end product it is as a whole from the smallest detail on up. do the door handles flex when you pull on them? does the cup holder block the shifter? does the steering wheel block the instrument cluster? does the steering communicate to the driver what the car is actually doing? do potholes make you wonder if parts of your car are falling off?
i love this. you say "that the honda v6, is still sohc, and is unarguably vastly superior (in terms of hp and refinement) than the dt3.0" you say that with a tone, to me anyway, that the honda v6 is a superior power plant than, everything? i know that is not what you say, just the way it sounded when i reread it. that is a fine opinion and i am not saying you said anything wrong or that can be argued. you believe strongly in the, quality?, refinement?, efficiency?, superiority?, of the honda engine(s). i have owned i4's turbo i4's, i6's v6's h6's, v8's v10's ohv, sohc, dohc, 2v/c, 4v/c, 1.2l, 2.l, 2.6l, 3.0l, 3.6l, 5.0l 5.3l, 5.7, 6.2l, and 8l cars/trucks. they all had superior something to something else and performed their assigned tasks very well for a long time (except for the aluminum vega engine). so what is your opinion comparing the honda v6 to cadillac (gm) 3.6 dohc vvt v6 (di 300 h-p version)? lexus is 3.5 dohc vvt v6 (306 h-p)? how about the audi new diesel engines?
don't know if it 'skewed' or not, but not too many years ago we would put grind cams in our engines that effectively would hold intake valves open longer and in a slightly earlier part of the piston stroke, this would allow the engine to suck some more gas (improving breathing), in the process producing more hp and obviously improving 'efficiency. the downside, of course, that loping idle becuase the engine would be less efficient at low rpms. so now we have vvt which is effectively a cam shift that occurs at higher engine speeds that does effectively the same type of thing except that it can also be 'programmed' to occur as deemed necessary by engine loads, fuel octanes etc. - (the honda vtec, i believe) the toyota system takes it quite a bit further, allowing for continuous adjustment on both the intake and exhaust sides again in response to computer readings - allowing for not only some hp, but also effectively 'flattening' out of the torque curve, as well as improved emissions. (cvvti in their lingo). the dt 3.0 if i'm not mistaken, is mechanical shift only on the intake side and does nothing about lift duration. if this suppostion is correct, don't know if this could conceivably be why the engine is so reticent to rev and/or is relatively hp challenged. you sound like a man that could answer that?
does the " l " chose from 2 or 3 lower gear selections? i'm not entirely sure but i recall someone posting that the manual states just that. when in "l" the tranny decides which gear is best, between 2 or 3 gears, given gas pedal placement, speed, etc. someone who has actually used it could maybe let us all know how that works? a stick can be fun, but not around town. i prefer a stick on a sports car, preferably rwd. for fwd, from now on, i will stick with automatics. i'm the opposite for the most part. cars we've owned with sticks include a '96 honda ex, '98 zx2, '04 mazda s, and currently an '06 ford gt. the only one i hated driving in honda traffic, which i do on a daily basis, was the honda because it had zero low end power. as long as the car has some power and i don't have to rev it up to move a few feet i'm happy. the 6 was fwd and an absolute blast to drive. fwiw i did test drive the mazda i with a stick and the v6 with the manumatic. the i was like the honda to me and the manumatic was useless because it shifted too early imo. plus there was the whole bored left foot sydrome associtated with it.
honda continues to build about the best smaller engines on the market but what i was doing was comparing one of the best to perhaps one of the worst. in response to an argument that seemed to imply that that dt in question must be a good or current engine simply because it has 24 valves or multiple ohcs, and/or a rudimentary valve timing system. those specific engines you mention, the toyota 3.5, the gm 3.6 are fine examples or the state of the art and in that respect are 'better' (if better, is defined as more current technologically) than the design that honda is currently using. you forgot btw the volkswagen 3.6, the mb 3.5 and about every bmw inline 6 ever produced. point taken, you can point to a whole bunch of engines over the years (the gm 3.8 and more v8s than you can count?) that has served their purposes well, but there remains a vast difference in how a honda/nissan/toyota/hyundai engine feels and sounds relative to that dt we were talking about) that is not exactly related to how much power each happen to put out. ps i fully expect that it'll be honda that shortly comes out with some engine superior in almost all respects even to the toyota 2gr-fse you mentioned.
when driving that dt30 ford, i enjoyed the performance, and please don't think i am "bashing" or "hating," but i wanted to lift off the throttle well before redline. did you drive the 2.3l i4? if so, did you have the same impression of that engine?
when driving that dt30 ford, i enjoyed the performance, and please don't think i am "bashing" or "hating," but i wanted to lift off the throttle well before redline. it did not feel nearly as "refined." this, to me, takes away some of the enjoyment of putting an internal combustion engine through its paces . thank you, exactly what i'm talking about, with many of the other cars in this group, you don't have the time to "want to lift off the throttle"
did you drive the 2.3l i4? if so, did you have the same impression of that engine? yes i have driven the 2.3l i4: normally aspirated in a 2006 ford se manual, and then turbocharged and direct-injected in a 2006 mazdaspeed mazda. in normally aspirated form, i noticed a slight "buzziness" to the sound, not entirely displeasing because it reminded me of the 2.2l i4 i had in my first car, a 1991 mazda 626. also, when accelerating through the gears, i'd let off the gas completely and push in the clutch, and the rpms would always jump up by 500. the manual shift knob was huge, and the lever action wasn't very precise (not unlike my 1998 626 es-v6). as i mentioned before, the ford/mazda 2.3l (at least in the midsizers) feels a notch slower than the toyota 2.4l, which is a notch (or two) below the honda 2.4l. performance/acceleration numbers seem to bear this out. i'm sure it's more fun in a mazda or ford. bottom line, i wouldn't call this motor "unrefined," it was quite happy to buzz along. i just wanted more grunt from my 4-banger. in turbo form, the motor was a real hoot. tons of torque, but power started to drop off above about 4,800 rpm. i liked it very much, and would have purchased it, but even heavily discounted to around $24,000 it was a little more than i wanted to spend, even before i figured up the insurance!
yes, the se is a v-6. our price was $16651 + $189 doc fee plus ttl (6% sales tax) otd 18,189. this was from a high volume dealer about 100 miles away. the local dealer was only discounting the car $500 and had a $210 higher doc fee and throws in $500 advertising for good measure. the dealer we bought from had an internet price of $1800 below invoice. there was a general $1,000 rebate and another $1,000 rebate if financed through hyundai finance (5.9% for 60 months)we also qualified for the owner loyalty rebate of $500. our price for the car, before doc + ttl, was $4300 under invoice or $5429 below msrp. the resale value game is a shell game. trade-in value or retail value of a used car? i just saw enterprise rent-a-car offering a comparably equipped '06 hyundai with 14,692 miles for $17,999 and they say, "blue book retail value" of $20,690. enterprise is a "no haggle" price.
thank you, exactly what i'm talking about, with many of the other cars in this group, you don't have the time to "want to lift off the throttle" now, i certainly don't think the ford is slow when you get the v6. the dt30 may not like to rev high, but that 6-speed automatic is pretty good for a slushbox, and it makes up for it (i've always like aisin-built trannys, had one in a cherokee that was bulletproof). once out of first gear, the transmission kept the motor on the boil. as i mentioned, it just didn't seem very "refined" (see previous definition) when doing so. i guess what i'm trying to say is, i'd prefer that it be smoother as opposed to more eager to rev, because overall not that slow of a car. 7.2 seconds? most v6's these days are quicker. the mazda with the same motor and equipped with a manual isn't quicker because it only has 5 speeds versus 6 in the auto. some of the faster four cylinders in this class (honda, nissan) can keep up when equipped with manuals. decent performance. can't really use much more than that around here. my wife wants a new ford gt. i drove one for a couple of days last year. this was the drill: gas it in first to get going good, short-shift, give it some gas in second. you're now going 10-15 mph over the speed limit. shift to 5th. otherwise, i'd get in a lot of trouble. insurance was too high on it to begin with.
the parallel you draw to reground cams with lumpy idles is a pretty good analogy to the high end cam profiles. it basically improves high end breathing, but does so without affect the low end torque and drivablilty. the original vtec of the early 90s was variable cam timing, while later versions also affected lift (there is a component on the roller). i believe they can now do duration as well (i-vtec). toyota skipped the early versions and showed up late with timing, duration and lift. remarkably, the next leap might be gm with getting rid of the cam altogether. again, the parallel to the lumpy cams is also seen in the aftermarket as a number of companies make "vtec controllers" that vary the rpms where they activate, etc.
the mazda with the same motor and equipped with a manual isn't quicker because it only has 5 speeds versus 6 in the auto. have any 0-60 times to back that up? i've driven the manual (my personal ride) and auto-equipped (test drives) v6-model 6's, and i can tell you firsthand, the manual will beat it out of the gate every time, as long as the person behind the wheel knows how to properly operate three-pedaled cars. the auto is a 6-speed simply for better fuel economy (actually better than the manual on the highway, iirc, according to the epa.)
most v6's these days are quicker. the mazda with the same motor and equipped with a manual isn't quicker because it only has 5 speeds versus 6 in the auto. the number of gears isn't the issue, its the final drive ratio and the individual gear ratios, as well as top speed in gears. manual transmission cars that are geared super short are slower because they have to be in 3rd to hit 60, while some of the taller cars can do 60 in 2nd. the time to shift is a factor here (i know don't get started on dsgs and what not, take it to the manual trans forum).
i didn't say the ford or the 6 were slow, acceleration is a function of hp and at 200+ hp they both will be reasonably quick although slower than most of the other v6 cars in this group. if the ford, for example, is going to get to 60 in 7 seconds, it's more about how it feels and sounds when you ask it to really do it. manuals will almost always be quicker and more economical than autos simply because there are less mechanical losses. more speeds in the tranny is fashionable right now but is more likely to improve fe than improve acceleration, it kinda depends on how the gear ratios are matched to the operating characteristics of the engine and how wide the engine's torque curve is. the bigger toyota 5 speed is every bit as quick as the 6 speed toyota and the fe ratings are also the same, somewhat a testimony to the flexibility of the engine they now share.
how about - refined = a car that is a pleasure to push a little or unrefined = a car that 'screams' in protest when you do. yes, the better v6s are generally found with those labels on it you don't like or maybe you would consider taking a new saturn xr out on a test drive.
how about - refined = a car that is a pleasure to push a little or unrefined = a car that 'screams' in protest when you do. by push do you mean push the gas? or is there some element of how it corners in there too? does interior accommodations play any role in that?
yes that's exactly what i mean, and certainly 'refinement' issues extend beyond the engine compartment and into places like vehicle balance, braking systems and suspension designs - that last one being a place where the ford and the 6 both do very well.
refined = improvement of form or function, through redesigning, retooling, or reconfigureing. unrefined = crude, rough, unsatisfying, not pleasing.
unrefined = crude, rough, unsatisfying, not pleasing. displeasing or unsatisfying is a subjective connotation. i think the honda felt more "refined" than the subaru but wasn't as fun to drive. the subie shakes when you turn it on (not like a vibration but you can feel the torque of the starter as the car kicks over) and it makes engine noises when you floor it or rev it. the honda's handling is also "more refined" in that it pretty much understeers no matter what. the subie will under or oversteer depending on where your foot is.
i left the bmw/mb/audi/opel/etc. off because of availability or price. no point in comparing the power train in a $45-75k cart with those in the $20k arena. i have been watching the american lemans series and am stunned by the performance and dominance of the audi tdi. a turbo-diesel is blowing the rest of the field off the courses. maybe next decade we will all be driving diesel/hybrids.
have any 0-60 times to back that up? ...i can tell you firsthand, the manual will beat it out of the gate every time" mz6greyghost and lilengineerboy, ford v6 6a is just over 7 seconds to 60, correct? i'd assume the mazda v6 6a would be pretty much the same (basically same chassis, motor and transmission, roughly the same weight). now the mazda v6 5m doesn't break into the 6's does it? i've always read they are in the low 7's. i found this on consumer guide, regarding the 2006 models: "the i versions are acceptably peppy with manual transmission, sluggish with automatic. v6s lively, but need high rpm for maximum punch. test manual s sedan did 7.5 sec 0-60 mph." even if you can flog one barely under 7, that's still not really much faster than the 6a at just over 7. we're talking 10ths of a second. i could be wrong. my 1998 626 es-v6 was good for 7.2 0-60. it only had 170hp (by the old standards) but was light by todays standards and geared very, very low (5th gear at 80mph was 4,000 rpm!). i miss that car... the mazda added horsepower, but also several hundred pounds, and isn't geared that low.
now the mazda v6 5m doesn't break into the 6's does it? i've always read they are in the low 7's. it used to when the v6 produced 220 hp. c&d clocked their long term v6 mtx at 6.4 seconds. the latest iteration of the 6 with v6 has fewer horses than those of the first year or two though. i don't know what the current time is to 60 with the slightly de-powered engine.
i've heard that it's not so much "de-powered" as just using different metrics to measure power - specifically using sae standards. to those who keep calling the mazda 6 engine "antiquated", "rough", and "thrashy", perhaps the less-exagerated way of putting it is "not as smooth" or "not as quiet" or "not as efficient" as some other engines in this class. remember, this engine/car continues to garner awards like most desired by editors of edmunds in 2007, sportiest car by consumers digest in 2007, and one of the most desireable cars in esquire magazine for 2006. given these awards, it can't be as bad as you describe... as an analogy, since the honda is slightly behind the hyundai in jd powers reliablity reports, perhaps you'd say the honda is junk? i'd say that this is also an exageration that doesn't stand to reason. ok, the 6's engine isn't the best, the newest, the quietest, the most efficient, or even the most desireable... but it's still a good enough engine that propels the mazda 6 to garner a great deal of respect by many auto journalists (who arguably are some of the most passionate people when it comes to cars...after all they have dedicated their livelihoods to that passion!). as a sidenote, i've spent quite a bit of time with the subaru boxter engine. with a turbo, that thing makes the subaru exhilarating. but since it's relatively quiet on the inside, it hides how clackity that engine is. perhaps because the older 6's (i think the 06's and newer are a bit quieter than my 05) didn't have as much sound deadening material as the subaru, it makes the duratec sound less refined than others because you can hear more of it. personally, i find reving the 6's engine up quite rewarding and not at all objectionable... so to each, their own. as to the 2.3 engine that the 6 has, motor trend described that engine as follows: "mazda's four-cylinder version of the 6--the i--is a willing partner on these curvy roads: a free-revving 2.3-liter, 160-horsepower inline-four joined to a snicky five-speed manual and a driver-focused cockpit, all wrapped in far-spicier-than-vanilla bodywork.... like its toyota and honda competitors, the mazda is no rocket off the line, but once the tach tops 3000 rpm, the dohc powerplant comes on strong, delivering an enthusiastic pull. the standard five-speed manual is one of the most positive shifters around, though we long for another cog. and, yes, you can heel/toe downshift in this family car. the 6 is a joy on curvy roads, quickly taking a set with minimal understeer and negligible bump steer--not something you expect to find in the four-cylinder midsize-sedan category. mazda thoughtfully includes grippy and supportive bucket seats in the open-feeling interior, which is designed with large, strategically placed knobs, dials, and switches." so yeah, the 6's engines aren't class leaders. but they don't deserve to be dogged either. in the end, they are solid components that don't detract from those who value a vehicle that is both comfortable and fun.
i have often read about how the mz6 has "only" 220 hp. my how times have changed. when the ford sho came out in 1989 it had 220 hp and was lauded as an extremely fast sedan; 140 mph top speed. now almost any sedan can be had with more than 220 hp. where are we using all this extra horsepower? with gas prices being where they are, it would seem that increased gas mileage would be more important than winning the hp wars.
yes, they apparently have. the version used in the ford and the mazda 6 makes more horses and torque than the earlier 3.0 liter version of the engine used in the ford ford when it initially hit the market. my daughter had one. i've also ridden in one of the new ford vehicles with the 3.5 duratec. performance seemed quite good, and, i noticed no undue nhv when the owner got on it a bit. do you honestly think that ford's premier automotive group, mazda, and domestic ford aren't sharing engineering info on ways to improve their offerings to the marketplace? regards: oldcem
the thing is, many of the high-horsepower cars are getting some of the best mileage estimates (compare the nissan 4-cylinder to the rest of the 4-cylinder class, it has best economy and acceleration.) the toyota v6 is the same way. awkwardly however, the vehicles that are lower on power also seem to offer less fuel economy, with the exception of the gm 3.5l pushrod, which does quite well for an engine of its size economywise, although power is only modest.
very well said. although we ended up buying an '06 5 speed honda, we thought the mazda was a really nice car, and would have been happy to own one.
there are other exceptions as well. chrysler's 2.7 and 3.5 v6 engines get exceptional fuel economy as well. i've owned both sizes and used them for business travel. my last two, both chrysler 2.7 sedans, consistently got 30 - 32 mpg running 75 on interstates. i also have owned a dodge dodge 2.7 and a chrysler lhs with the 3.5 - both got exceptional mileage for as big as they were. i've also owned 2 honda, both 4 bangers with manuals, and, neither of them delivered the fuel economy that the chrysler do. my all - time fuel economy champ remains a 1975 oldsmobile starfire with a 3.8 v6 with a two barrel and a 3 speed automatic. the car consistently gave me 38+ mpg. think [non-permissible content removed] cars are reliable - the olds went over 250k, and, didn't die until a guy ran a red light and totaled it. regards: oldcem
do you honestly think that ford's premier automotive group, mazda, and domestic ford aren't sharing engineering info on ways to improve their offerings to the marketplace? when will these improvements be realized in the ford? when the competition is yet another two or three steps ahead of them. i've also ridden in one of the new ford vehicles with the 3.5 duratec. performance seemed quite good, and, i noticed no undue nhv when the owner got on it a bit. how does the performance of the 3.5 duratec make the 3.0 duratec better?
odd that you got poor mileage in your honda. i get 38-40 mpg on strictly highway in my 2006 honda, and that's with an automatic at 70 mph. the old one, a 1996, will return 31 mpg at that speed, with a/c. not bad for a 4-speed that turns 2,800 rpm at 70 mph. we have had to chrysler, one with a 2.4l 4-cyl (chrysler) and one with the 2.7l. both cars had transmission issues (refusing to back up on many occasions), and the second one (2.4l) had suspension issues that confused the dealer for 4 months. a horrible creaking/groaning that they heard but could never find. my family traded the car with 35k miles, since the warrany was about to expire and we knew we'd be upside down in repair bills soon after that occurred. i remember the 2.4l was pathetically powered for that car, with something between 11 and 12 seconds to 60 mph. the chrysler convertible is a heavy car. i can't say i remember the mileage they returned (these were some years ago). and yes, i think "[non-permissible content removed] cars" as you call them are reliable as a whole. my other daily driver is a 1996 honda chrysler with 172,000 miles on it. hasn't left me stranded a day in its life (which started in my family in november of 1995). pretty reliable to me. so was my granddad's 260k mile honda which he sold for $1,000. not saying other cars aren't reliable though, just that our "[non-permissible content removed] cars" have been the epitomy of reliable transportation, and that i've seen no evidence that tells me my honda should be any different.
my other daily driver is a 1996 honda chrysler with 172,000 miles on it. hasn't left me stranded a day in its life (which started in my family in november of 1995) yeah we got a raw deal. the honda displaced the previous record holder ('83 reliant) for most times on a hook, and it still doesn't have the miles yours does. the new "world" 2.4 seems pretty cool, the hyundai/mitsu/dc motor looks cool. i would hardly consider that domestic though, being a japanese company, a korean company, and a german company.
thanks for your impressions of the 2.3, benderofbows. i did not really drive the mazda with ford's v6 enough to form much of an impression of it. if you had put the 2.3 in the "unrefined" category, then i'd have had to discount your impression of the v6, since i am happy with the 4 (i would not mind more torque off the line, of course). the ford v6 i have driven is the old 3.8l, in our windstar. now that engine really makes you worry when it revs. otoh, these "antiquated" pushrod engines seem to generate lots of low end torque...225 ft-lbs at only 3000 rpm in that 3.8l, which is also satisfying in its own way.
had the experience to drive a new ml320 cdi recently, close to 5000 lbs of suv. no diesel clatter or other associated ill behavior and the thing 'felt' quick, and indeed is considering the vehicle weight. a rather unusual amount of compression braking though when you let off the gas. owner was reporting high 20s mpg in strictly big honda driving. remarkable drivetrain that is now available in a mid size 'e', expensive as it may be. honda is reportedly also working on a 'clean' diesel, but i agree the diesel and/or the diesel hybrid may be where we are heading.
as being illustrated by many of these new v6s - with the increased efficiencies (hp) also comes the increased fe. the two seem to go together. the toyota 2gr-fs, which i have argued is the most advanced in this group, was originally rated at 280hp (pre the 06 sae changes) - added 500cc of displacement, some torque, about 80 hp, and a coupla three mpg. from toyota's standpoint, if they can produce something that wins both the hp and fe 'wars' they would be foolish not to - because both sell. besides which, for those folks that put a high priority on fe, the 4 bangers and the hybrids are available. a can't lose situation for the auto buyer?
but was light by todays standards and geared very, very low (5th gear at 80mph was 4,000 rpm!). the weight would be the thing - but 4000 rpm for 80? 4 banger territory these days and would be actually be high for any of the v6s in this group. my 2gr toyota with a 5 speed auto is at 2700 for 80 mph and would suggest to you that some of those 'old' 3.8s are turning even less than that.
" i get 38-40 mpg on strictly highway in my 2006 honda, and that's with an automatic at 70 mph." wow... that's more than what i get. what's the key? weather? tires? the way you drive? enjoy the great mileage
the key word there is "strictly" highway. that means, i fill up at a gas station along the interstate (my usual trips put me on i-65), and fill up within a couple of miles of getting off the interstate. once i hit my steady speed (70-75 mpg typically), i usually go the entire trip without ever summoning a downshift, so revs stay at a constant 2,400 or so. these trips were in cooler months with no a/c as well, and never more than two of us in the car. a/c seems to knock 1 mpg off of my regular numbers. so, conditions were very conducive to excellent mileage. my typical mileage on my regular route is 29-30 mpg, with 14 miles of interstate, 12 miles of two-lane/four-lane streets. conservative acceleration is common (rarely topping 3,500 rpm except when i want a grin ). my dad had a car similar to mine (a 2005 version of the same car), and drove much more aggressively, and in return, averaged about 5 mpg less than i would get on trips. he is constantly summoning a downshift to pass or accelerate, though. driving style is huge in mileage. i'm planning a trip to oklahoma again soon, and will report on the mileage i get on that 1,500 mile trip. it'll be hot (may) and the car will be loaded.
"the ford v6 i have driven is the old 3.8l, in our windstar. now that engine really makes you worry when it revs. otoh, these "antiquated" pushrod engines seem to generate lots of low end torque...225 ft-lbs at only 3000 rpm in that 3.8l, which is also satisfying in its own way." that's the same engine i had in my '93 sable two cars before my '07 3.5 se--had traded it in on an '04 volkswagen nb tdi. it had 140 hp, same as the 3.slow as someone called it, but its torque was wonderful--it never sounded or felt strained, simply jumped ahead whenever i needed the extra go. just proves that because time goes by, things don't automatically improve. ford dropped its availability in the redesigned '96-forward ford and made do with two 3.slows--they both had to scream and rev for even the least increase in speed because they had no torque available. no wonder ford became the king of rentals from then on...
i've heard that it's not so much "de-powered" as just using different metrics to measure power - specifically using sae standards. that could very well be the case too. it would certainly explain why c&d has not done a performance test on the 6 since 2004 imo. why re-test if nothing really changed?
there has been much debate surrounding this topic. nvh-wise, i believe some of the engines in this class have performed very well in terms db. off the top of my head, and based on my experiences, i would say the 3.3l from hyundai is probably one the quietest, if not the, out of the v6 engines in this class. toyota's 3.5l and honda's 3.0l is not far behind in terms of db.
"to those who keep calling the mazda 6 engine "antiquated", "rough", and "thrashy", perhaps the less-exaggerated way of putting it is "not as smooth" or "not as quiet" or "not as efficient" as some other engines in this class... given these awards, it can't be as bad as you describe... as an analogy, since the honda is slightly behind the hyundai in jd powers reliability reports, perhaps you'd say the honda is junk? i'd say that this is also an exaggeration that doesn't stand to reason... 6's engines aren't class leaders. but they don't deserve to be dogged either." zzzoom6, excellent post about the mazda. i apologize if i came across as exaggerating or dogging the ford/mazda 3.0l, that was not my intent. i was merely comparing, and yes you are correct in that instead of saying "rough" and "thrashy" as compared to ___, one can say "less smooth" etc. i've owned two mazda, a 1991 626 and a 1998 626 v6, both very good cars (and both stick shifts). i haven't driven the mazda "s" 5-speed manual because, as i mentioned, all the performance numbers which i had seen for it (low-7 seconds manual, about 8 seconds 5a, mid-7 seconds 6a) were not too different manual versus 6-speed auto. when shopping i drove ford 2.3l 5m, ford 3.0l 6a, and mazdaspeed6. if i had known mid-6 second runs were possible with the 3.0l 5m, i'd have definitely tried one before buying the honda 2.4l 5m. the honda feels quick to me but certainly not sub-7 quick. it can and has outrun mazda "s" 6-speed automatics. (that's the only disagreement i have with your post, my honda 4-cyl is considerably faster than the mazda/ford 2.3l, at mid-7 seconds versus low-9 seconds to 60). i was just focusing on one area: trying to define engine refinement and giving examples. of course this is just one small factor to evaluate! i agree that the 6 is an excellent car with many class-leading qualities. i'd love to have the clean, well-designed and attractive "5th-door" hatchback in my honda, not to mention the 6's handling. also, i will be thrilled if my honda has the reliability record of my old 1998 626: over 100,000 miles with only scheduled maintenance and wear item replacements. when it comes right down to it, all else equal, i'd take better performance for slightly less "refinement." i chose the honda mostly for value (purchase price and resale), its blend of refinement and performance/handling, and record of reliability. but as you said, to each his own, and i'm happy. would i also be happy with a 6? of course. i assume you have a 6? want to trade cars for a weekend?
that'd be fun actually! seems most of my friends have gravitated toward suv's rather than cars, so i haven't spent a whole lot of time in an honda since i test drove them over a year ago. honda continues to improve their cars, and considering the high level they've been at for quite some time, that says a lot about their commitment to excellence. i only hope that in the long run, my mazda 6 holds up as well as my previous honda. 16 months so far, and i have had no major problems (had a rattle fixed and a blown speaker replaced under warranty). but if all continues to go well, i'm sure i will have this car for several more years. your posts have been quite civil and described well so no worries about hard feelings.
let me step in, if i may, since i'm also a 6 owner (s sedan, 5-speed manual). i haven't driven the mazda "s" 5-speed manual because, as i mentioned, all the performance numbers which i had seen for it (low-7 seconds manual, about 8 seconds 5a, mid-7 seconds 6a) were not too different manual versus 6-speed auto. when shopping i drove ford 2.3l 5m, ford 3.0l 6a, and mazdaspeed6. i bet you wouldn't have paid much more (if any) if you bought the mazdaspeed 6 compared to your honda, since they're practically giving them away. if i had known mid-6 second runs were possible with the 3.0l 5m, i'd have definitely tried one before buying the honda 2.4l 5m. you're right, it's no barn-burner, but mid-6-second 0-60 is almost the norm for the v6 with 5-speed. the low-end punch is lacking a little imo, but over 3000 rpm, it really moves. dropping a gear to pass on the highway is almost too easy, and fun btw! (that's the only disagreement i have with your post, my honda 4-cyl is considerably faster than the mazda/ford 2.3l, at mid-7 seconds versus low-9 seconds to 60). a slight correction. the low-9 seconds to 60 mph that you refer to is for the mazda 6 with the 2.3l and automatic. with the manual, i believe you're looking at mid- to high-7s, same as the v6 with automatic. when it comes right down to it, all else equal, i'd take better performance for slightly less "refinement." ... would i also be happy with a 6? of course. i like how you think. i bought my 6 in '04, after repeatedly test-driving it, an honda coupe (v6, 5-speed manual), an nissan 3.5se (v6, 5-speed manual), and a subaru gt (limited with manual). in the end, each had it's flaws, but the 6 won me over on the not-so-bad v6 power, excellent handling, great styling and an inexpensive price. the honda was smooth, powerful, and styled nicely, but the 2-door is impractical for me, and at the time, the only v6, 5-speed manual combo from the factory was the coupe (but yes, i know it's available on the 4-door now.) the nissan wasn't bad. excellent power with the v6, but the body-roll while cornering almost gave me motion-sickness. the torque-steer was terrible, especially during cornering, and the interior was cheap-looking and cheap-feeling to me. apparently, the '08s have fixed all that, but i haven't driven one yet. the subaru had awd, but you can feel it's extra weight from the instant you hit the gas. the 4-cyl was okay, but i know i'd get terrible gas mileage with the awd. and i could never get comfortable in the driver's seat, no matter what position i tried. i assume you have a 6? want to trade cars for a weekend? i do. and no, sorry!
4000 rpm for 80? 4 banger territory these days and would be actually be high for any of the v6s in this group. my 2gr toyota with a 5 speed auto is at 2700 for 80 mph and would suggest to you that some of those 'old' 3.8s are turning even less than that. i forgot to mention, that motor was a screamer! redline was 7,000 rpm, but it would readily and willingly surpass that- i was a couple of hundred rpms into it by accident a few times and the rev limiter never interfered, and this one time... my wife will kill me if she ever sees this, but... when driving a stick she used to get nervous and try to do everything too fast, even though i taught her it doesn't matter how slow you operate the clutch and gear shifter, always better to take your time. one late, late night she was driving it and merging onto an empty highway. she ran it out pretty high in first gear, shifted very quick to second and ran it out to make the jump into 3rd... and instead, went right back into first and dropped the clutch. talk about a motor "screaming" !!! i couldn't see exactly from the passenger seat but it was waaaaay in the red, over 7,500 rpms. i can still hear the sound. maybe the limiter finally stepped in and saved my butt that time, lol. but everything was fine, no ill effects. it had almost 100,000 miles on it at that point, too. it's still ticking along somewhere i'm sure, the last time i spoke to the guy i sold it to he had no complaints. take that 3.8 above 7,500 and see what happens!
i bet you wouldn't have paid much more (if any) if you bought the mazdaspeed 6 compared to your honda, since they're practically giving them away. yea i thought about that, they had the one i drove marked at $23,000 and that was last year. that's only a few grand more than my honda was. but, insurance and speeding tickets would have been much, much more i can't restrain myself well. it's more fun for me to run my honda 4-cylinder hard than it was for me to drive that 2005 ford gt (which i had from a local dealer for two days when the wife wanted to upgrade) because of having to refrain from taking advantage of the power. you could floor it in one gear and that was it, fun was over or you're looking at a big time ticket or accident. oh, and this is a little off topic but speaking of engine refinement, the ford story reminded me... my wife currently drives a 2004 ford with the 3.9l v6, and it makes the dt30 seem like a bmw six.
i can't restrain myself well. it's more fun for me to run my honda 4-cylinder hard than it was for me to drive that 2005 ford gt (which i had from a local dealer for two days when the wife wanted to upgrade) because of having to refrain from taking advantage of the power. you could floor it in one gear and that was it, fun was over or you're looking at a big time ticket or accident. lol!!! i'm having that very problem right now. coming from a mazda s with a stick i was used to being able to floor it for 2 or 3 gears when merging onto a highway (yes from a stop because the drivers around here can't merge for anything :sick: ) and i'd still be at a reasonably safe speed. with my current ford gt i'm doing 80 before i'm even at redline in 2nd gear. it's really hard getting used to that sensation but boy is it fun! i just make sure the coast is really clear before doing that. otherwise i "granny" it.
sorry i guess i misunderstood what you were calling 'low'. but, in any case, i find it hard to believe that any v6 especially one with a ford label, would run out past 7000 rpm. if so, it certainly can't be related to the 3.0 dt. the 2gr toyota has a 6500 redline, the tranny will hold right to redline with any sort of encouragement, so much so, that you find yourself bouncing off the rev limiter simply because it (the rev increase) is so transparent and quick. as far as that 3.8 at 7500 - can you say schrapnel?
a 2004 ford with the 3.9l v6, and it makes the dt30 seem like a bmw six the curse of the pushrod???.
isn't the 04 ford v6 the 3.8? we have the 3.8 in my wife's 2000 windstar. my lawnmower or weedwacker (take your pick) are smoother than that ford 3.8.
the thing is, many of the high-horsepower cars are getting some of the best mileage estimates (compare the nissan 4-cylinder to the rest of the 4-cylinder class, it has best economy and acceleration.) thats the cvt doing that. i would look for it to show up in more cars over the years because of that. it takes a couple hundred miles to get used to it, but once you do, its quite an amazing bit of technology.
isn't the 04 ford v6 the 3.8? my niece has an 04 ford convertible v6. that is one pitiful engine. i know it's larger displacement than my 03 v6 honda (3.0). the performance is sad, for a sports car.
hey thegraduate, i've noticed that my 2006 honda se 4 auto. has gotten better mpg. i bought the car last june new and it has about 12,000 miles. starting at about 7,000 miles the car consistently rewarded me with over 30 miles to the gallon (over 33 miles on one trip to monterey, ca and going over 450 miles before the light came on). i use the car primarily on the freeway with trips about 70 miles or so. at times in some streches, its stop and go on the freeway and speed no higher than 25. as far as the new, 2008 honda, the vtec.net site had some good information about the 4s and 6s (albeit perhaps highly speculative). i don't think honda will increase the hp of the 4 by that much though - usually its 10. look for a boost in fuel economy and additional safety items.
the 4 banger honda gave me less than expected mileage because i live in the mountains. i had to constantly downshift to maintain interstate speeds, especially if i was carrying passengers and luggage. never said the chrysler were reliable - my last 2 have been terrible, but, they do get great gas mileage. my experience with japanese cars - my first honda was great, the second was a lemon. two of my kids bought civics, and, with much interstate driving, the engines in both were pretty much shot by 90k. my other kid has tried a toyota mr2, a nissan nissan, and a hyundai hyundai. the mr2 and the nissan were money pits, but, the hyundai went 146k with minimal repairs. do i think toyota and honda are reliable - sure, but, i've also gotten similar reliabilty out of most of the ford, gm, and chrysler cars i've owned. imo i think ford and gm have gotten much better of late, and, chrysler seems to have gotten worse. regards: oldcem
the 4 banger honda gave me less than expected mileage because i live in the mountains. i had to constantly downshift to maintain interstate speeds, especially if i was carrying passengers and luggage. ah, that makes perfect sense. honda aren't known well for low-end torque for good reason; until lately, they simply didn't have much of it. top end power was plentiful in most models, but below 3,000 rpm, not a whole lot would typically go on. this is true in my 1996 honda (although my 2006 is plenty torquey with peak torque a good deal lower than the older models as well). you probably get the best mileage out of high-torque, lower hp engines in your conditions. in mine, the honda balance works much better.
easiest way for ford to make up ground with the competition is to do exactly what chrysler did with its midsize - stuff the 3.5 in it coupled to a 6 speed tranny, and, make the two smaller engines available as lower cost options. i've not driven a 3.0 ford yet, so i don't know if its supposed nhv problems are real or not. plan to drive one as soon as i start shopping for a replacement for my business driver chrysler. regards: oldcem
not sure how interstate driving renders an engine "shot". but my neighbor had an mr2 that he put 180,000+ miles on it, rarely had any work done to it, redlined the hell out of it, and when he sold it it ran so smooth that you couldn't tell the engine was even running when it idled. my colleague's hyundai hyundai was a pos. a joke. my ford experiences have been disappointing. i've gone japanese for many years now and have never been disappointed.
my colleague's hyundai hyundai was a pos. a joke. relevance? the hyundai was a subcompact, last sold in the u.s. in 1994.
relevance? actually a whole lot of relevance - despite the hyundai being a much better car by all measures, experiences like this underline the reputation issues that hyundai still faces - and therefore effects not only the price that these vehicles command but also the resale values later. on the other side of the coin, toyota and honda, in particular, will continue to enjoy the honeymoon they have been on for years, even in the event that their cars prove to be unremarkable.
"toyota and honda, in particular, will continue to enjoy the honeymoon they have been on for years, even in the event that their cars prove to be unremarkable." the fact the honda cars are unremarkable is interesting due to the fact honda keeps beating the competition with old designs to new designs. if honda' cars are unremarkable it makes hyundai' cars non-existent.
in the event that their cars prove to be unremarkable. is what i said, the last thing that i would tell you that even in its current form - that the honda is 'unremarkable', the point was that if by some magical pontiac of the wand, the honda became even an 'average' car, the preception that it is still among the best will last long after thereafter. same thng applies, incidentally to the toyota, imo.
i have been so impressed by my two honda (for 16 years), that i will keep buying them, until one fails to meet expectations. many others will do the same, i suspect. frankly no other car company has a chance, until an honda fails me. when i find what i want, i don't keep looking.
stuff the 3.5 in it coupled to a 6 speed tranny, and, make the two smaller engines available as lower cost options i think ford's pr dept. would tell you that this is exactly what they are going to do - the beancounters are the ones that may have a problem with it...
if it ain't broke, why should you fix it! i think your attitude is shared with many many honda owners, and not something that you will find too much amongst chevrolet owners, for example.
stick with what works. its the same reason i stick with the nissan. 3 of them so far, 380,000 miles (and the nissan only has 1500) and never been left on the side of the road, or not made it somewhere because a car wouldn't start. and as for the honda's that somebody said were dieing at 90k, did you ever change the oil or maintain them? though i prefer my nissan's, i've got to give honda credit. they do build one heck of car. the 2002 honda my wife drives has 110,000 on it, and has never needed anything but schedulded timing belt change somewhere around 100k. and it runs perfect
stick with what works. its the same reason i stick with the nissan. 3 of them so far, 380,000 miles (and the nissan only has 1500) and never been left on the side of the road, or not made it somewhere because a car wouldn't start. congrats on your good fortune. i find that the sr20 would pop a head gasket around 95-105k and the transmissions would start popping out of 5th gear somewhere in that time frame too. in its day, that was a great motor. i know the 2.5l had some issues early on but those seem to be resolved, and if the vq didn't require premium unleaded, that great 6 would be on my list as well.
just to set the record straight. both civics were used by my kids to run back and forth to college. both were serviced every 3k miles using castrol gtx. both of them were burning excessive amounts of oil by the time 90k rolled around and needed their valve trains rebuilt. one of them developed a crack in its exhaust manifold orignating from the ox. sensor fitting as well. the dealer wanted $1000 to fix it. one good thing - they did have decent resale value when i dumped them. regards: oldcem
relevance? actually a whole lot of relevance - despite the hyundai being a much better car by all measures, experiences like this underline the reputation issues that hyundai still faces... from post #1: let's see if we can start off with some ground rules so that it is abundantly clear what this topic is about. well, duh, it's about midsize sedans. but here is what it is not about: * manufacturers issues... based on that, i comsider hyundai's reputation based on late '80s-early '90s subcompact to be irrelevent to this discussion. people who haven't had their heads in the sand since the mid-'90s realize that the hyundai is very competitive in the mid-sized class, in both capabilities and reliability.
the 2.5 and 3.0 duratec derivatives that i've owned both redlined at 6500 as well, and, would get there quite quickly. my chrysler 2.7 redlines at 6500 also, but, is not happy. regards: oldcem
very simple - interstate driving here in the mountains where i live means a honda 4 banger with automatic spends its life at high rpm an excessive amount of time, because that's where its power band is. the engines simply wore out. regards: oldcem
is there a "4 banger" you feel would have lasted longer, under these conditions? to kind of switch this to midsize sedans, i think honda 4 bangers would have held up better.
you may want to check this out dashboard is so not toyota
you may want to check this out ewwwww(3074), i think most of us have seen a toyota; as one of the best selling cars, it's hardly a secret. even though it's only been out for a year, they are everywhere...if you see the same thing over and over and over and over again, i think by default it becomes a bit boring despite having an amusingly large bulbous nose. and btw...it seems you're picturing a car that is not even available here...the taillights on your pic are completely wrong for us models. why show us something that is not available here? yawn, those pics make me tired. time to go to bed...
as you can tell from the url in the background of the last shot, those photos were taken in china. i think with most modern cars, a properly maintained vehicle will last far beyond 100k miles, regardless of brand. preventive maintenance is the key, not only with oil changes, but everything else.
toyota: 42,000 honda: 36,000 nissan: 27,000 toyota: 19,000 ford: 16,000 chevrolet: 14,000 pontiac: 12,000 hyundai: 11,000 at this point, it seems unlikely that any car in the near future is going to unseat the toyota, especially with the subaru factory in indiana gearing up to produce 100,000 more a year (but i do wonder if toyota really can sell more than 500,000 of this car a year). the honda is a solid but distant second, and the nissan is a solid but distant third. the big surprises to me at this point are two: the toyota is now #4, and saw sales increase by 130% over the previous year. the second surprise is how far down the list the hyundai is, and even more shocking is that sales are down 40% from last year's pace.
the honda could easily overtake the toyota when the all-new honda debuts later this year. the current model is five years old; the toyota was recently redesigned. also, the toyota's numbers include a large number of sales to fleets; almost all the honda's numbers are to individuals. the limitation with the honda will be production, as you noted. hyundai has deliberately cut back on hyundai sales to fleets this year, so that is part of the reason for the dropoff from last year, when many hyundai went into fleets. also, incentives have been lower so far this year than last year, when they were $3000 total for most of the year on v6 models. the toyota has had incentives for the first time recently, and $3.00+ a gallon gas doesn't hurt toyota sales either. chevrolet numbers should pick up later this year also, when the all-new and improved chevrolet comes out.
i know this is superficial, but i've gotten used to if there is a half-moon cut-out for a chrome exhaust tip on one side, then there ought to be a matching one on the other side, or the exhaust should just be hidden. i know this is a 2.0 engined car, so it's not going to have duals. i know the nissan 2.5-3.5 don't have real duals, but i like the way they finally made nice-looking dual chrome tips in the rear valance instead of playing around like they did so many years with a little cut-out on one side with two pipes turned down and so on. that's one of the things that i found strange on the mazdaspeed 3--here's this high performance car with a half-moon cut out on one side with a big chrome tip in the rear, just begging to be balanced with one on the other side.
the people who bought the 2.5 nissan may not be as excited about the dual exhaust outlets, if they ever have to have the exhaust system replaced (added expense). i see no real reason to have the dual outlets on v6 engines, except for "looks". not so long ago, even v8 cars had single exhaust. i do agree, it looks cool though. i wonder how much more the 07 2.5 nissan exhaust cost, than the 06 system did.
exhaust systems are all stainless these days aren't they? they last a really long time...the life of the vehicle in many (most?) cases. i like the dual look on my 4 cyl mazda. this only adds one small muffler and a bit of pipe, not a big deal, if it ever needs replacing. i have found that exhaust system work is a lot cheaper if you find a place that will weld in new parts, rather than going to midas, et. al. and having them sell you an entire new system, because that is all they are set up to do.
the muffler on my old honda lasted about 5 years. the factory muffler was $220 (not including installation). if i would have to replace two of them, i would have been looking at double that $440. of course, if you don't keep the car that long, it becomes the next guy's problem. but it will cost more, sooner or later, for whoever has to change it.
the exhaust systems on my lesabres have lasted 10 years and were doing fine on the one car i did trade.
the exhaust system on my honda bought new in nov. 1995 is still on there today, 172,000 miles later. i could count on one hand the number of times it has been driven in snow, however, so salt/rust isn't a problem.
my old honda had never been driven in snow either, but the muffler had a hole in it, and the pipe going to the muffler also had a hole (where it goes over the suspension). that's why i decided to buy the factory muffler, it included the pipe going to the muffler, and was an easy bolt-on. they don't all last forever. the truck (96 chevrolet) i drive to work has dual exhaust too, and the exhaust is shot. it will have to be changed soon. i may just go with single this time. maybe both are a result of short distance driving. the moisture stays in the exhaust pipe, and eventually rusts it out from the inside.
172k miles grad. wow! that exhaust has to have a hole in it somewhere.
my nissan 200sx has original exhaust on it. thats 150k miles over 9 years. its driven in rain and snow ever year.
i doubt it would be easy. the 2008 model will undoubtly cost more, and those 1500-2000 dollar rebates everybody here says honda is offering will dissapear. $2000 rebates have got to be helping prop the sales up a bit.
if all mufflers lasted that long, midas (among others) would be out of business. i hear a lot of cars pass my house every day, and many of them need a new muffler.
why? i just wanna show you guys a japan version of toyota. they have better cars that the us does. it is relatively sporty, don't you think? i don't understand why the us version of japanese cars are always worse except the engine size
friends, mufflers and exhaust pipes rust from the inside out. driving in rain or snow has no more affect than driving exclusively in a desert.
that's why i think repeated short distance drives are the reason my exhaust didn't last very long (5-6 years).
elroy, i agree. those short trips don't allow the exhaust to heat up sufficiently to "burn off" the moisture in the exhaust gas.
yes, short trips and the resultant moisture in the exhaust system, is what kills mufflers, cats, and all exhaust parts. it's also not very good on engines. the factory muffler was $220 - ouch. i stopped buying exhaust parts, or systems, at the dealer a long time ago. i found a source of truly oem parts - made by exactly the same vendor that supplies to honda, etc. - but, at a fraction of the cost. i recently replaced my entire exhaust system from the exhaust manifold to the exhaust time, including the cat, for less than $300. of course, i did the dirty work myself, and labor is a significant part of exhaust work.
well, mine has lasted that long, and it is the longest i've ever kept a muffler on a car. my inspection sticker expires this month, so i'll let you know if it passes. i'll also be watching my rear brakes. they're original too. i figured they'd need replacing last year, but they didn't. but, the short distance thing may explain it. 80% of that cars miliage is to and from work. thats about 25 miles each way with hardly any lights or stop signs and little (if any) traffic. about 22 of those 25 miles are 60mph crusing.
toyota: 42,000 honda: 36,000 nissan: 27,000 toyota: 19,000 ford: 16,000 chevrolet: 14,000 pontiac: 12,000 hyundai: 11,000 wow. only 11,000 hyundai sold in march!? where are all the pundits from 6 months ago that were predicting the hyundai would sell huge and move way up this list? what amazes me is the honda can still sell 36,000 units with a wheezing design and style. unbelievable market acceptance. when the 08 honda debuts - watch out.
wow. only 11,000 hyundai sold in march!? where are all the pundits from 6 months ago that were predicting the hyundai would sell huge and move way up this list? i was thinking the same thing. where are they now? one car does not make a reputation, it seems.
that's why i think repeated short distance drives are the reason my exhaust didn't last very long (5-6 years). honda are the only cars i've been responsible for where i had to replace an exhaust system. its not a killer expense, its not going to make me love one brand and hate another, but its interesting.
what amazes me is the honda can still sell 36,000 units with a wheezing design and style. unbelievable market acceptance. when the 08 honda debuts - watch out. might have something to do with huge rebates you can get on them. if they can maintain their 17% or so increases selling at sticker..............then that will be something. and toyota might have to watch out. and, i wouldn't call the design or style wheezing. i think the current sales may be a testament to how ahead of its time the last redesign was.
the cat, or any other part of the exhaust, was never changed in 12 years, and 140k miles. only the parts farthest from the heat of the engine, where the moisture took longer to evaporate. the metal termites are having a feast on my chevrolet truck exhaust, because i drive less than one mile to and from work twice a day. but i'm not exactly going to drive around town for 5 more miles (burning more gas), to save my exhaust.
i'm inclined to agree with you. i think the larger honda 4 holds up better. i've owned 4 other 4 cylinder cars that held up better here than the civics did. three of them were ford escorts, the other was a german built ford ford. regards: oldcem
i cannot find the post. someone said the honda honda 5spd i4 was considerbly faster than the 5spd i4 ford? car and driver posts a 0-60 of 8.1 seconds for the ford i4 5spd. what is it for the honda? the lowest i find is a 8.0 for a honda honda 5spd i4. now really much difference?? :confuse:
what about mercury sales?
i don't believe in sales numbers. because mcdonalds sells more burgers than wendys does that make mcdonalds a better burger? nope. case in point the car and driver shootout between toyota/honda/ford. i hope ford/mercury sales stay down. i would much rather see ford continue to build a quality car at a great value and maintain the quality.
172k miles grad. wow! that exhaust has to have a hole in it somewhere. well, since short trips have a harmful effect on the muffler, the fact that the car ran 35 mile trips, twice a day, five days a week, for 6 years (and 115k miles of its life), probably has something to do with it. the car doesn't sound any different than it did when i got it. i can put the car running on youtube one day (after finals! i'm swamped with school right now!) so you can hear it. if it has any holes, they aren't affecting the "muffling" effect!
i don't believe in sales numbers. because mcdonalds sells more burgers than wendys does that make mcdonalds a better burger? nope. nope, it just means it offers what people value most. better is subjective. a better car for you was definitely not a better car for me, and vice nissan.
because mcdonalds sells more burgers than wendys does that make mcdonalds a better burger? nope. mcdonalds sells more burgers than wendy's because they are cheaper. can you guess why less ford are sold than honda? they're not cheaper, so there must be another reason. hint: because they are better. . i hope ford/mercury sales stay down. you don't have to hope for it. it will happen anyway. case in point the car and driver shootout between toyota/honda/ford. hahahaha, that's funny. name a company who didn't win a comparison they paid for.
case in point the car and driver shootout between toyota/honda/ford. in the magazine articles i've read (the real thing, not the commercials), the aging honda beat out the ford. the ford scored well, but the honda simply scored better (on things like interior finish, engine performance, engine nvh).
what is the point of this forum? praise "honda" and do bashing & mocking "hyundai" same old same old. i think it is time to close again. people never learn from mistake. :mad:
thats because the honda is a better car than the fussion, period. the honda, however, is going to run you 3k+ more to buy. and that will probably increase quite a bit when the 2008 honda show up. and i doubt its ever going to change. ford is just more concerned about their trucks than anything else. you never find outdated engines or technology in them. they're constantly investing time, money, and engineering skill on improving the f seris truck, and as a result, are by far the best truck you can buy. but when it comes to cars, ford just isn't as concerned. at least not in north america. if it hadn't been for the run up in gas prices, and the resulting double digit decreases in truck/suv sales, ford would still be a comfortable #2 in the auto industry.
as has been mentioned, miles are not really much of a factor in exhaust system life. time and short trips are the bigger factors, i would think the climate can have an effect too, as it takes longer to heat everything up in cold weather. are there differences in the quality of exhaust systems? we had an '89 voyager, the exhaust system was still good at the end of the vehicles life (12 years) and we do have winter here in wi. kids have '95 and '96 contours. the '95 had one pipe replaced and the '96 had the resonator replaced. in contrast a '91 nissan nissan we used to have, needed a lot of exhaust system work done to it over time. reminded me of the old days, when a new exhaust system every 3 years seemed typical. i have assumed that by now, these midsize cars have all stainless exhaust. is this a correct assumption...does anyone know od exceptions to that? also are there perhaps differences in the quality of the stainless steel used?
who was it? i cannot find the post. someone said the honda honda 5spd i4 was considerbly faster than the 5spd i4 ford? car and driver posts a 0-60 of 8.1 seconds for the ford i4 5spd. what is it for the honda? the lowest i find is a 8.0 for a honda honda 5spd i4. now really much difference?? it was me. someone pointed out that i mistakenly posted the time for an automatic ford 4-cyl, at 9.36 seconds according to consumer reports. mainly i was going on my experience of actually test driving both cars. car and driver just confirmed my feeling that a 4-cylinder manual honda runs zero to sixty in 7.5 seconds, winning 6th place in what they call "the quickest cars of 2007: less than $20,000." that would put it 0.6 seconds faster than a similiar ford (which didn't make the top 10). http://www.caranddriver.com/features/12848/2007-honda-honda.html "if a pro athlete made it onto the all-star squad 21 times, you&#146;d either call him your holiness or on steroids. in the last quarter-toyota, the honda honda has qualified for 10best honors in all but four years, yet it&#146;s never landed on that list by dint of force. instead, the honda earns accolades for being relentlessly chevrolet and fluid. it offers a cushy ride but never wallows. its steering is light but insistently transmits little e-mails informing of road texture and available grip. the 166-horse i-vtec four delivers right-now throttle response and squirts to its redline like a spaniel fetching a mallard. the clutch is nearly frictionless&#151;no problem holding it through an entire red light. and the shifter is easy to read&#151;slick and positive, such that you make heel-and-toe downshifts not because you have to but because mr. honda figured you might want to. after sampling decades&#146; worth of honda, we&#146;ll just fall back on all the hackneyed descriptors: solid. dependable. an ergonomic all-star. voted most likely to hold its value. of course, we weren&#146;t contemplating resale values when an honda prevailed in a recent comparo earlier this year. we were just thinking about what we&#146;d most like to drive."
what is the point of this forum? praise "honda" and do bashing & mocking "hyundai" merely pointing out that the hyundai doesn't sell like the hyundai clubbers projected, and that the honda still delivers huge sales, even with its dated design. is that a bash? its calling a spade a spade. sorry i like honda(as do thousands of others). there's a reason for my skew. i apologize.
i wonder how many people in this discussion (v1.0) beat up hyundai for selling too many hyundai to fleets, and now are beating them up because they have reduced sales to fleets in an attempt to raise transaction prices and improve resale values. keep in mind also that with hyundai fes selling briskly, around 8500 last month (more than a 100% increase over last year), hyundai production for the north american market (in the alabama plant) is gated at about 25,000 per month less hyundai fe production. so that puts a limit of about 16,000 on hyundai per month, less if hyundai increases hyundai fe production to meet growing demand. the hyundai will not come close to outselling the likes of honda, toyota, and nissan in the forseeable future; there simply aren't enough hyundai available. maybe hyundai could ship some from the rok if needed, but it appears they are working on increasing transaction prices and per-unit profit than on maxing out production. if the hyundai is an inferior car because it sells "only" 11,000 per month in the u.s., i guess that makes low-volume cars like the mazda and subaru really bad!
mcdonalds sells more burgers than wendy's because they are cheaper. can you guess why less ford are sold than honda? they're not cheaper, so there must be another reason. hint: because they are better. sorry elroy, but that's bad logic. i've been in many industries where the inferior and more expensive product outsold the better, less expensive product. sometimes it's marketing, sometimes it's past experience/reputation (which has little to do with what's available now), and sometimes it's just name recognition. i'm not arguing that the ford is "better" than the honda, or vice nissan. but higher sales numbers do not equal "better." i would also suggest that you are no more of an expert of what "better" is than i when it comes to cars for other people. consumers are pretty funny, if you ask me. often times consumers go into a store without doing any research or even knowing what characteristics are important to them. sometimes consumers ford on one characteristic without conisdering other important ones. all this is just saying that just because someone buys something, it does not necessarily mean that what they bought was the "best" choice for them. the process of buying a car is complicated and tiring which many people find very stressful. under these conditions, it's no wonder why someone may buy something that is not ideal. if people were completely logical and clear thinking, there would be no need for salespeople...
backy - this is the car that was supposed to fire a shot over the bow of the camcordtima and make em shiver in their boots. sure that hyundai's a good car, but 11,000 units?! how many units did the older design hyundai sell in a march?
it's no wonder why someone may buy something that is not ideal. its goes both ways. some buy ford because its the only dealer in their little town. what - defaulting to a honda is somehow a bad thing? honda's reputation garners many sales. that reputation didn't just fall into their lap.
what - defaulting to a honda is somehow a bad thing? honda's reputation garners many sales. that reputation didn't just fall into their lap. sorry, but did i say it was a bad thing? and where did you get in your mind that i didn't like honda or that their reputation wasn't deserved? i'm just saying that higher sales #'s don't equal "better" and that "better" isn't so easy to define when there are many different characteristics that people value differently.
the hyundai was the car that, when introduced, bested the toyota in multiple comparos. (the nissan available at that time wasn't deemed worthy to even participate in those comparos.) more than a shot over the bow of toyota and nissan, i'd say. and they have responded with better designs in the past year. and you may have noticed that since the '06 hyundai was introduced, huge discounts with honda-to-dealer incentives have been available on honda. coincidence? or maybe some people have figured out that an honda isn't worth $5000+ more than a hyundai, so honda has had to adjust their market pricing to compensate. as for how many gen 3 hyundai were sold in prior marches, in 2005 11,373 were sold (best ever for the hyundai up to that time) due in large part to huge close-out incentives right before the new hyundai was released; in march 2004, 8,736 were sold; in march 2003, 7550 were sold, and in march 2002 (the first year for the refreshed gen 3 hyundai) 5725 were sold. so 11,000 is on the high end for monthly sales for the hyundai--as high as the best sales month ever for the prior generation.
and you may have noticed that since the '06 hyundai was introduced, huge discounts with honda-to-dealer incentives have been available on honda. coincidence? um, sorta. the honda is now a five-year old design, and honda typically offers some incentives just before a new design debuts.
i'm just saying that higher sales #'s don't equal "better" i think, in this case, it does. considering: the honda costs more, yet sells more. i must not be the only one who thinks it's better. why are they paying more for it, if they don't think it's better? are we all being fooled, or brainwashed? this is only my opinion , and you are entitled to your own. toyota buyers can say the toyota is better, because it sells more, at a higher price, and i don't have to agree with them. opinions are like ***holes, everybody has one, and they all stink.
the 2006 hyundai was introduced to the u.s. two years ago, when the new-for-2003 honda was mid-way through its third year. does honda typically offer huge discounts/incentives 2-1/2 years before a new design debuts? not in my car-shopping experience they don't--not if they don't have to, anyway.
i don't think toyota and honda are afraid of the hyundai, as many have claimed they would be. the nissan seems much more a force to be reckoned with. the "hyundai challenge" is not much of a challenge.
glad we agree now...
so do you suppose then that honda put big incentives on the honda out of the goodness of their hearts? what cars are forcing them to do that? the toyota, which has few incentives? the nissan--ditto? the saturn--ditto? surely they don't fear the chevrolet or pontiac--or do they...? do you suppose it's possible the big incentives on the honda are because too many buyers are snapping up hyundai and its cousin the kia, so honda had to do something to narrow the price gap?
so do you suppose then that honda put big incentives on the honda out of the goodness of their hearts? perhaps because the design, while being five years old, is something people don't want, because it will make their car "the old model" soon.
the fact that honda has incentives on the honda is no surprise given the fact that its five model years old. also, they typically had incentives (not cash rebates) on the honda towards the end of the model year, as did the previous version of the toyota, and the 2006 hyundai. its a fact that the dated honda continues to be at or near the top of this segment. the 2008 honda retail prices are not expected to rise that much. perhaps less than 3%, or a few hundred dollars and standard content will increase. i would not go out any buy one right away when they are introduced because you will not likely receive a large discount. perhaps, wait until mid to late december of 2007 to get a pretty significant discount. this segment of the market is too competitive. i bet you that many of those competitor cars have rebates/dealer incentives/special leases and finance rates on them come that time. also, you can get a 2007 toyota ce or le 4 in my locale for a rather signifcant savings off of msrp. why? although the vehicle is selling well - its nearing the end of the model year and the market is too crowded.
so do you suppose then that honda put big incentives on the honda out of the goodness of their hearts? what cars are forcing them to do that? because the 5 year "old" honda is competing with a "new" toyota and a "new" nissan. the rest are inconsequential (don't matter much).
i think most people don't know about hyundai. many that do, just remember the negatives from the late '80's. probably over 90% of car buyers have never taken a close look at a hyundai, never mind a test drive. i wouldn't say there are being fooled or are brain washed but, perhaps, maybe foolish for not taking a close look at hyundai (and other makes) to see what is available in the market now. good luck with a brand helps build owner loyalty (heck, hyundai often offers a loyalty rebate). honda & toyota have been building great cars for 20+/- years now. hyundai started building great cars in '99 or 2000. it will take them a while to gain widespread acceptance. they are slowly attracting more attention and buyers. counting myself, i know three hyundai drivers who, following conventional wisdom, wouldn't have looked at a hyundai 3 years ago (actually one of them is picking up his new hyundai wednesday).
the competition has increased from the 1980's when honda used to sell at a price higher than msrp in ct. whether manufacturer to dealer or manufacturer to consumer, honda has felt a need to offer incentives. and, as you said, they typically had incentives towards the end of the model year. years ago they did not. i think rebates to the consumer are better for the consumer as he is sure to get the rebate. incentives to the dealer are not "always" 100% passed along to the consumer. if a manufacturer offers dealers a $1500 incentive but only $700 of the incentive reaches the consumer that could help the resale value, but the consumers would have been "shorted" $800 up front. which would you rather have $800 today or $800 extra when you dispose of the car in a few years?
my god, the honda is a good sedan but being the best or better than the toyota and saturn, i think not. those beast's are more buzzy than a yellow jacket flying around your ear. :surprise: i do believe the 08' honda will be a good automobile. i however think the current honda was passed up by the toyota, and the new saturn. i suppose if i was a buyer in this segment i'd go saturn. rocky
do you suppose it's possible the big incentives on the honda are because too many buyers are snapping up hyundai and its cousin the kia, so honda had to do something to narrow the price gap? yes - agreed. for a while there honda sales were way off.
agreed. many forget to point out hyundai has only been in the us for 20 years, while toyota and honda both have been around here for 50 years (toyota 50+; honda - just shy of 50 years). i hope many remember there was a time when both toyota and honda was, well, let's just say, not as successful as they are today. they were in the same position as hyundai about ten, fifteen years ago, but the difference, hyundai is improving and changing the game at a much faster rate.
exhaust systems count me in the group of honda owners who have great luck with exhaust systems. my 95 ex i4 manual (that my son now drives) with 220k miles still has the original system, including the muffler. i'm sure it will go any day now.
there are pluses and minuses to either one - rebate or incentives. rebates are taxable in ca and dealer incentives are not. rather, rebates are used to offset the purchase price plus all add-ons, taxes, doc fees,license/registration, etc. figure, as are cash you contribute and/or trade-in. you have to be smart to get most/all of the dealer incentives - but the dedicated prices paid forums really help. they are likely to pass on the entire dealer incentive amount - since there is a 3% holdback on a honda. i remember honda always being discounted here in ca since the late 1980s. so, i don't share your experience as to paying above msrp.
i think the hyundai is a nice looking car. i like the styling of it as much as the honda. it looks to me like the visibility is a bit better from the inside of the hyundai, because the rear roof pillars aren't as thick as they are on the honda. also, look at the features you get on even the base level hyundai--xm radio (can't get that on the honda until you go to the honda), stability control (can't get that unless you get the v6), etc.. i love xm radio (which i have as an aftermarket unit on my 02 honda), and it seems like the advantages of stability control outweigh the disadvantages. and so far, the people who own the hyundai seem to like it. i'm just surprised that sales aren't higher. is it still the left over discrimination against cars in the late 80s and early 90s that weren't that good?
they are paying more for the honda because the media has beat it into thier heads that it is worth it when it is not. the ford is by far a better value, costing thousands less. a .5 second difference?? is a whole lot faster?? can you count to a 1/2 second??? this room is turning into a joke. once again the honda fans get to bash away at the ford/hyundai or anyone else that differs on their opinion. i have threads taken off that are not near as bad as are posted on here! :mad:
this room is turning into a joke. once again the honda fans get to bash away at the ford/hyundai or anyone else that differs on their opinion. i have threads taken off that are not near as bad as are posted on here! sounds like sour grapes to me. i don't interpret it as bashing anything non-honda, more like crowing cause the honda is that good, even being a 6 year old model. why take a chance on a ford (weak reputation) or a hyundai (unproven to the masses) when you can just buy an honda and rest easy?
let me clarify what i said earlier: these incentives and deals on the honda didn't just start appearing in the past few months, on 5-year-old honda (design-wise). they have been around for about 2 years. coinciding with the arrival of the '06 hyundai, the first truly competitive mid-sized offering from hyundai. i don't think it was a coincidence. it will be interesting to see what happens if honda drops incentives on the 2008 honda and dealers try to sell them at or near msrp, especially if msrp goes up. then it will be back to a $5000-6000+ difference between the hyundai/kia and the honda, if hyundai/kia maintain current levels of incentives.
i suppose it won't matter as the honda, will sell like hot cakes. i wouldn't be the least surprise if the honda is the #1 car sold in america, in 2008. rocky
why take a chance on a ford (weak reputation) or a hyundai (unproven to the masses) when you can just buy an honda and rest easy? in the case of the hyundai two reasons immediately come to mind; price and warranty. then there's the 5 year roadside service and features of each car. we just bought an '07 hyundai se w/xm for $3357 less than edmund's tmv. what is the street price of a comparable honda? we may be looking at a real price difference of $5,000 or more right now. if the comparable honda is the chrysler v-6, edmunds says the tmv is $24,282 and there is a $750 to dealer incentive. if 100% of the incentive is granted to the consumer, the tmv price would be $23,532. if i compare our actual hyundai purchase price to the tmv for the honda, i'm looking at a savings of $6481 for the hyundai. are honda selling below tmv? if so, by how much?
i don't think hyundai/kia are likely to ever steal sales from honda. they are much more likely to steal sales from cars with less loyal buyers (mitsubishi, chevrolet, ford, chrysler). to think that the 06 hyundai affected honda incentives, is exaggeration, if not fantasy.
just looking at your subject line... ...thanks for not going the personal route :sick: .
that wouldn't surprise me, either. few things do these days. however, the mid-sized market is a different than it was in the fall of 2002, when the current honda design debuted. back then, you had the toyota, nissan, and then-new mazda as clear-cut front-runners in the class. the competition is much stiffer now, with new-for-2007 toyota and nissan still there; the saturn, ford, subaru, and mercury; the hyundai and kia; the volkswagen; and all-new mazda and chevrolet due for 2008. so if honda tries pricing the honda too high, there are lots of good alternatives for price-conscious buyers.
i try not to get personal. i deal with that way too much and i have many wounds to prove it. the 08' honda, i think will indeed be a nice car. i like the pics i see as it finally has character. i being a former acura tl, owner (a mistake) did like the product very much but hated the service. i however do think a sh-awd acura tl, would be a hit. it will need enough power to overcome the awd problem if they aren't going to make it a rwd car. i think it would be more popular as a sh-awd car anyways but it's going to have to come in with plenty of power and have the "gadgetology" to once again become a class leader. we will see.....this fall the best mid-size automobile even though i's perfer the holden grill is the rwd pontiac pontiac. if they make a hsv version of this car like they do in australia, their isn't another non-lux car out on the market that will touch it's handling and power. it's basically a street legal race car in hsv trim. i however won't expect to see a hsv for a year or two. acura, right now has the best chance to meet the pontiac's power. they better not under estimate the pontiac's impact on their own sales. i still think acura, would be best to twin-turbo their v6 to make the power. like i said we will see as more and more sporty and luxury cars hit this segment. the new mazda and mazdaspeed 6 is coming. of course we have the spec. b subie. the rwd chevrolet in 2009. how bout the 2010 buick velite sedan ? i'm just saying it's going to be a crowded field as more and more offerings hit the midsize segment. rocky
backy, couldn't agree with you more. i as i said in my last e-mail can't believe how crowded this field will get. i guess i should of left out the 09' rwd chevrolet, as i forgot it will be considered a large car then. the chevrolet, will take the current chevrolet's place. rocky
these incentives and deals on the honda didn't just start appearing in the past few months, on 5-year-old honda (design-wise). they have been around for about 2 years. not according to edmunds and other sources. there was no dealer incentive when i bought my honda in march of 06. they started soon after, however,
manufacturers only offer discounts for one reason, and one reason only. to sell more cars. there is a variety of reasons why they want to sell more cars, such as clearing space for new models, or reaching some sales goal ect. they don't start handing out 1500 dollars to buyers just because the design is old. a $1500 rebate reduces the profit to almost nothing on a toyota, nissan, honda, or similar mid size sedan. the same will hold true if buying a car at the end of the year. if for example, you want an nissan and they're still selling 25-30% over last years numbers, good luck getting a rebate. if nissan can sell them without one, they aren't going to offer one. ditto for any other car. if you want a rebate on a good selling car, you'll have to wait till jan, or feb, of '08 when they will want all the 07 cars off the lot.
sounds like sour grapes to me. i don't interpret it as bashing anything non-honda, more like crowing cause the honda is that good, even being a 6 year old model. why take a chance on a ford (weak reputation) or a hyundai (unproven to the masses) when you can just buy an honda and rest easy? considering this post blatantly breaks the guidelines established in the first post: well, duh, it's about midsize sedans. but here is what it is not about: # manufacturers issues # manufacturer vs. manufacturer... then yes, scape does have a valid point.
not all of these incentives to dealers are public knowledge. dealers can choose to pass them along to buyers or apply them to their profits. for example, if you look at edmunds.com now for incentives on the honda, what do you see? awhile ago, hyundai was offering manufacturer-to-dealer incentives on the hyundai, and these didn't show up at edmunds.com either.
1995 dodge stratus with 184,240 miles and the exhaust system is entirely original. it has been in pa its entire life and has seen its share of road salt. it is a stainless steel system which is a great thing. pa has an annual vehicle inspection and the exhaust is one of the things looked at so i can't avoid repair if it is found to be leaking.
if you or scape2 or anyone else believes a post to be inappropriate, please email me your concerns. since i host many discussions, please give me the name of the discussion along with the post numbers. and please give me your user name since i can't tell that from your email address. you can always get my email address from my profile at the top of any discussion i host, but it's not too hard: pat at edmunds.com thanks - i appreciate the assist, always!!
backy - where did you get your information about incentives on honda appearing 2 years ago? i purchased my honda in april 2006 and there were no incentives at that time. to my knowledge, incentives on the honda were only made available within the last 6 months or so.
$750 incentives were put in place for a few months at the end of the honda's 2006 model year, iirc.
since this discussion frequently strays into a "honda equals a no-brainer choice that even an automotive dim-wit can buy without regret or fear" sort of mindset i'll give an opposing opinion. we bought our first ever honda product, a 2006 honda ex sedan automatic, in nov 2005. it has had both rear shocks replaced at about 4k miles but the rear suspension noise that resulted from leaking shocks started on the drive home from the dealer @ 6 miles showing. it has had two (of about a dozen potential bulletins for the 06 honda alone) service bulletins applied, both for abnormal noises. the second required replacement of the right upper motor mount. the interior plastics used are of terrible quality, particularly on the door trim where the door pull/arm rest is. it is a "waffle" pattern that scratches easily and irrevocably. the pattern in the cloth on the driver seat bolster has begun to disappear (as in wear off)and the fabric itself is bunching up on that same bolster. the car has excessive wind/road noise. on the other hand fuel economy is fairly good on the road and we have not had any driving issues except for the interior noise and the 5 speed auto that shifts out of 5th into 4th at the very thought of an incline not to mention a hill. i am not entirely happy with honda and yes,i was one of those who went into this with that honda = quality mindset. how did i get that? print media (all those golden articles in all those car and consumer magazines) and word of mouth (ask any honda owner it never breaks). the car currently has 7,358 miles not a typo 7 thousand miles. i previously owned (and several in our family still own)hyundai products which by comparison were and are trouble free at 10 to 20x the mileage of the honda. i am a lone voice in the wilderness....
they are paying more for the honda because the media has beat it into thier heads that it is worth it when it is not. the ford is by far a better value, costing thousands less. a .5 second difference?? is a whole lot faster?? can you count to a 1/2 second??? this room is turning into a joke. once again the honda fans get to bash away at the ford/hyundai or anyone else that differs on their opinion. i have threads taken off that are not near as bad as are posted on here! - scape, i'll further support my case by asking you to look more closely at the performance numbers. in the car & driver article i referenced "the quickest cars of 2007: less than $20,000," they clock the honda 0-60 in 7.5 seconds. in the same article, the mazda s, being smaller/lighter than the ford but having the saving engine, beats the honda to 60 by 0.2 seconds. however, look at the "street start" 5-60 mph numbers. in my opinion, this is a good measure of an engines' usable torque and makes a big difference in throttle response around town or in traffic. the mazda s, although faster than the honda 0-60, is slower than the honda from 5-60 by 0.8 seconds! (honda 7.9 versus mazda 8.7 5-60 mph). the 5-60 time of the honda is only 0.1 second off from the faster, more powerful, 6-speed manual nissan! i think that's noteworthy. according to c&d, the ford "street start" time is 9.0 seconds, or over a second slower than the honda. that is a difference you can really feel when driving both cars. again, does that mean i am "bashing away" at the ford? no! most people don't care too much how quick their car will respond to throttle inputs. i'm just here to talk and compare midsize sedans. can we do that? you are right, the ford is a great value, of course the resale value is less so it roughly evens out.
because the media has beat it into thier heads that it is worth it when it is not. the ford is by far a better value, costing thousands less. the media has somehow determined what an honda is worth??!! give me a break and the american autobuyer a little credit! economics 101- it is the buyers that determine the worth of anything not scape2 and certainly not captain2. in this case it is several hundred thousand of buyers that determine what the camcord and the ford is worth both now and later. economics 102 - 'value' can have little to do with initial price.
since this discussion frequently strays into a "honda equals a no-brainer choice that even an automotive dim-wit can buy without regret or fear" sort of mindset i'll give an opposing opinion no, your not the only one who feels that way. i know a honda is not an honda, but i was so unimpressed with my honda i never even seriously considered the honda when i made my last purchase. i pretty much was picking between the toyota and nissan. and to be fair, the honda runs great (although i do have to fork out the $$$ for the timing belt change that i never have to with chained nissan) but the interior is just so cheap, and poorly constructed that i wasn't even going to take a chance with the honda. i still can't believe the mid level trim came with a tape player instead of cd. but the problems you described are spot on. the damn texture to the plastics, inaddition to the scratching problem) are a pain in the [non-permissible content removed] to keep clean. and the cloth on the door pannel fell off durring year two. just a cheap glue holding it on. and as i said, i know the honda is of much higher quality than both the honda and competition in its class. the catch, though, is the price. out of all the midsize sedans out there, the honda is always the most expensive......and usally several thousand more. sure, they're rebating the hell out of 'em now, and sales are way up. but, i'd be willing to bet when the 08's show up, the price rises, and the rebates dissapear; you won't get one off the lot for less than 23-24k. for any who doubt, look at the honda. redisgned in 06, much better, nicer car, and much more expensive. at my local honda dealer, the base models are starting at about 18,300. as a result, its the most expensive compact in market, and sales (so far this year) are down about 15%
it is a circular argument. the media always says that honda is golden in all manner of ways and the american auto shopper sees, reads, believes and buys the new honda (much like i did) thus keeping resale up because the media says honda is golden and the perspective used car buyer also sees, reads, believes, and wants..you guessed it..a used honda. how do you think this determined "worth" comes about? it starts with good press. if you think the media (consumer and auto test magazines stating honda is good)don't have any effect on the "worth" of a used honda/honda etc. or conversely any relatively negative comments about a ford product have a "less than positive" effect on the resale of that ford product you are incorrect. it is a game of perception initiated by the media. the car itself may..or may not...be so golden in the end but perception is king...
and using the honda as a reference - there are valid statistical studies that the new (or used) honda is likely to be a less troublesome car than any ford ever thought of being. reference: the cr 07 auto issue. btw if and when honda makes a car that does not live up to expectations, that 'perception' honeymoon you are talking about will become a 20 year marriage, prices will go down, as will scape's 'value'. i believe, that in general, the ford is viewed pretty favorably, perhaps the 'best' ford product out there, which is definitely a relative consideration. again, impo, i might look at it seriously once they can improve their engines and stop supporting the mexican economy. until then, it'll likely be the new nissan 3.5/cvt or possibly the new (09?)honda (if it is as 'developed' as i think it will be) in my driveway.
in terms of honda, let's try to stick to the honda here. the honda isn't in this class and honda as a manufacturer is not the subject. thanks.
according to c&d, the ford "street start" time is 9.0 seconds, or over a second slower than the honda. that is a difference you can really feel when driving both cars. this 9.0 sec time from 5-60 for 4 cyl manual transmission ford lacks credibility, since cr got 9.5 sec for 0-60 in a 4 cyl automatic (march 2006). and they do their test by just stomping on the gas pedal.
there are valid statistical studies that the new (or used) honda is likely to be a less troublesome car than any ford ever thought of being. reference: the cr 07 auto issue. to return this to the midsize sedan topic, what valid statistical conclusion have you come to based on comparing the ford to the honda in the magazine you reference? (i have not seen the issue.)
(although i do have to fork out the $$$ for the timing belt change that i never have to with chained nissan) and since we are talking about honda here and not civics, readers would want to know that the i4 honda have timing chains, not belts. :shades:
wish i knew how to post the chart - a line graph showing problems/100 vehicles on the y axis and vehicle age (up to 10 years) on the x axis. so, therefore, an ascending graph as the vehicle ages - toyota/honda/nissan showing about half the number of problems thru the years than the 'us' mfgrs- apparently based on several hundred thousand responses to their questionnaires over the years. the ford, incidentally, has been doing pretty well, but hasn't been around long enough to be able to tell if it will continue to show good results over the long term or will become more like the 'usual' ford. same sort of situation right now for hyundai and the new hyundai btw, because history does not support that mfgr. making cars to the same sort of levels that the 'japan 3' has. 5 years from now, who knows, we may find out that the 05 ford is exactly what scape says it is - it may be the first 'bulletproof' ford ever made.
"manufacturers only offer discounts for one reason, and one reason only. to sell more cars. " i see honda is now offering low interest rates? why? if their cars are selling so well? :confuse:
the fifth year of one car is the fifth year of another. people become more insecure when a car is only months away from making theirs the old, obsolete model. toyota did the same thing, nissan did the same thing, and ford doesn't dare ask sticker for many of its models, last i looked, including the ford (that had at least a thousand in rebate cash).
the media plays a huge role in perception as to what a car is worth to the consumer. if we are told over and over and over again that an honda/toyota is the "best" then yes people will fork out more $$ for it. it is going to take the consumer some time to realize honda or toyota do make good cars. but they are not worth the extra premium price. however, lets look again at the car and driver comparison of the 3 vehicles. what some here fail to see is this is a comparison done by consumers, not one person like a review by a magazine that needs to keep its sales up. the mag is going to take the easy route with the sedan that is selling the most vehicles. these test hosted by car and driver and yes, paid by ford were everyday people like you and i. unlike a bias review from one "expert" that must keep the masses happy to keep sales of the magazine up. this comparison test is very significant. for me, the ford was by far the better value, better car than a like optioned toyota or honda. it handles like its on rails. as far as road noise it matches the honda/toyota in db levels. granted, you romp on the gas and it does get a little noisier than an honda or toyota.
i point to the actual reviews from consumers above that actually own these vehicles. experts are a dime a dozen. the consumer is master. ford 9.2, honda 9.1, toyota 8.7??. i don't see how you can discount actual consumers who buy and own these vehicles. and, the honda/toyota has 3x as many reviews as the ford!!
for me, the honda was the much better value. the 4-cylinder engine is far peppier-feeling than the ford's was, especially at low-mid revs, where the ford came up weak-kneed. couple better power with higher fuel economy, and the powertrain sold me on the honda. the ford being noisier with a 90s-blocky interior put it on the backburner for me as well. the ford handled nicely, but not enough to overcome the bumpier ride for my butt that it provided. different strokes...
wow. 38 reviews. 1 tenth of a point. i'm sold. to paraphrase something i've heard... "can you really count 1 tenth?"
so the short answer to "what valid statistical conclusion have you come to based on comparing the ford to the honda in the magazine you reference?" is... none . here are some numbers for 4 cylinder automatics...edmunds expected total maintenance and repair costs for 5 years/75,000 miles: ford se = $4229 honda se = $4098 toyota se = $5233 nissan s = $3039 looks to me like toyota is the one to worry about, not the ford. why does it cost so much more to maintain a toyota? and so much less for the nissan?
as i just mentioned a couple of hours ago, we need to stick to the vehicles themselves. some posts have been removed.
this 9.0 sec time from 5-60 for 4 cyl manual transmission ford lacks credibility, since cr got 9.5 sec for 0-60 in a 4 cyl automatic (march 2006). and they do their test by just stomping on the gas pedal. huh? i was citing times from c&d... car and driver. they are very accurate, and i doubt cr just "stomps on the gas." remember, "street start" or 5-60 times are almost always slower than 0-60 times for the exact same car. this is because they are conducted from a rolling start which uses 2nd gear. it is desinged to measure the torque or low end (low rpm) power an engine has, kind of like the 50-70 mph tests conducted in a vehicles top gear.
targettuning, please check your email.
ok then our 1995 dodge stratus at 185,000 miles has great perceived quality. the engine is quiet, uses no oil,starts instantly in all weather. the interior is not worn at all, the plastic pieces aren't scratched up. all controls hyundai satisfyingly. it drives great..only one problem chrysler makes lousy cars. but in reality they don't??
"these test hosted by car and driver and yes, paid by ford were everyday people like you and i. unlike a bias review from one "expert" that must keep the masses happy to keep sales of the magazine up. this comparison test is very significant." the 'comparison test' was a ford advertisment as clearly specified. it was a paid advertisment, pure and simple. i wonder if you had felt its significance if the honda had won it.
"the consumer is master." exactly. that's why honda sell more than ford.
honda has been offering incentives and low aprs to sell more cars, expecially with the redesign coming up. so what's the question?
"it is going to take the consumer some time to realize honda or toyota do make good cars. but they are not worth the extra premium price" opinion, not fact, as stated by your post.
huh? i was citing times from c&d... car and driver. i was aware of that. point was the two sets of numbers did not make sense to me. but, i was not aware that the test you refer to is based on being in second gear at 5 mph. seems like that 5-60 test result could also depend on the 2nd gear ratio. the car with the lower ratio in second would have an advantage, provided a shift to 3rd is not required. 95% of people are buying automatics anyway, so all the tests of manual transmission equipped vehicles should not impact their decision.
i have followed town hall closely for over 7 years, and keep up with the "prices paid" discussions. i recall discussions of big discounts/incentives under invoice on honda going back a couple of years. here is an example from may 2005, mentioning a $900 "bonus" (a rebate by any other name would smell as sweet...): willie8, "honda honda: prices paid & buying experience" #7911, 29 may 2005 5:51 am if you look at the prices from that time, you'll see many way under invoice. i doubt honda dealers would do that unless they had some incentives/rebates from the manufacturer. unfortunately, not all honda dealers choose to pass these incentives along to customers--which apparently happened in your case.
i thought 5-60 "street start" acceleration was just to reduce the effects of a controlled launch. it is simply "standing on the gas" from a rolling start. i don't know about this "second gear" business, it may well be true, but it's not the impression i was under from years of c&d subscriptions.
looks to me like toyota is the one to worry about, not the ford. why does it cost so much more to maintain a toyota? and so much less for the nissan? honestly, i wouldn't pay any attention to those at all. the reason the toyota is so high is because they are probably the most honest. the reverse would be true for nissan. the cost of ownership is one of them most minupulated figures out there. to get a lower number, the manufacturer will simply push back the maintanence intervals. for instance, how many people have bought cars where the owners manual says to change the oil every 7500 miles? and to cover their butts, they add that line that if you drive under more severe conditions (never defined though) that you should bump up time/milage intervals.
and to cover their butts, they add that line that if you drive under more severe conditions (never defined though) that you should bump up time/milage intervals. actually, my owner's manual states the criteria for "severe conditions." they include extreme temperatures (and actually state the numbers they count as extreme, i just don't have the manual in front of me!), dusty conditions, etc... i have an honda, by the way.
to get a lower number, the manufacturer will simply push back the maintanence intervals huh?- scheduled maintanence is a miniscule portion of the cost of owing any car. the important numbers would be what it costs to buy vs. what is worth when you are done with it. fuel and insurance costs won't make a really large difference either.
had the honda won it - then ford didn't do a very good job 'selling' and 'paying' - did they/
looks to me like toyota is the one to worry about, not the ford. why does it cost so much more to maintain a toyota? and so much less for the nissan? that $1000 difference is purely the transmision if it goes south. toyota's fancy mega-speed computer controlled transmissions are hellishly expensive to repair. of course, the costs for the manual version(s)... whole other story. the honda vp with stick was by far the best of the bduget sedans that i test drove. this car was built in japan(one of only 2 or 3 specific honda honda/honda models) with the same gearbox and engine that they use over there. and it was lovely. the same thing happens if you get a mercedes with manual and the smaller engine. this is the exact combo they offer in germany and it's a joy to drive. the big engine slushomatik is crap they churn out for rental companies and it shows.
http://www.consumerreports.org/cro/cars/pricing/best-worst-in-car-reliability-10- 05/how-they-age/0704_how-they-age.htm this would be that 'none'
sorry, don't see anything there that leads to a valid statistical conclusion with regard to the ford or the honda ...which is what i had asked you about.
backy - i purchased my honda about 1 year ago for $800 under invoice (trunk tray, wheel locks included). at the time, that was a good price for the car. now that the $750 mfg. to dealer incentive is in effect, it is common to see deals of $1500 (or more) under invoice posted in the priced paid forum. since you follow the forum closely, i'm sure you would agree that the prices paid (relative to invoice) have definitely gone down since this $750 incentive went into effect (by $500-$1000 over the last year or so, according to recent posts).
i don't know that i do. if you look at the prices posted about 2 years ago, there are some great deals there. but it's very possible that incentives have increased recently as the current honda nears the end of its life. that doesn't change the fact that there were significant incentives in place 2 years ago. and imo the price competition from cars like the hyundai and now the kia are the main reason why honda has to offer big incentives to move cars that the automotive press routinely proclaims as "best in class."
i think the pp & be board has been a really terrific addition to our forums. i guess it's been up and running for a number of years now and i know it's been a great help to many, many members - myself included. but i do think it's important for those of us who rely on the exact numbers being posted to be aware that you can't always know the total deal. something i wish folks would question more closely when people post what look like great deals is the trade-in details, i.e., was there a trade-in, what vehicle was it, in what (fairly assessed) condition and what allowance did you get for it? the reason i say that is because it's not the least bit unusual for a dealership to undervalue the trade-in for the specific purpose of lowering the stated purchase price. another thing to wonder about is the total amount of "document fees" - some dealerships will ink a deal that looks great when you're looking at what they say they are selling you the car for, but then when you go to drive away, you find that there are additional fees up one side and down the other. i don't want to turn this into a debate over the posts on that board, but i do want to caution that there may be more than meets the eye to some of these deals that seem so deeply discounted - no matter what car we're talking about. i guess i'm suggesting a "trust, but verify" approach. which is a pretty good idea in most areas of life! :p
note that edmunds says those maintenance costs include both scheduled and unscheduled maintenance. i doubt the number of oil changes is going account for a difference of this magnitude over 5 years. unless toyota requires an oil change every month or something. i don't buy the unsupported speculation that toyota is more "honest". warranty direct, in their defintion of terms, happens to mention that: toyota, for example, has a high average cost of repair but quite a good index rating - which means that the car fails infrequently but when it does you will be in for a larger than average bill. this is from uk data, but perhaps this explains some of the high toyota costs?
then either you didn't understand what i said in #334 or maybe just didn't want to believe it? again "and using the honda as a reference - there are valid statistical studies that the new (or used) honda is likely to be a less troublesome car than any ford ever thought of being. reference: the cr 07 auto issue" and later "the ford is viewed pretty favorably, perhaps the 'best' ford product out there, which is definitely a relative consideration." i guess these statistics, which tell us that an 8 yr old honda will report an average of 55 problems/100 vehicles as opposed to 110 for a ford, mean nothing? magically i guess the american consumer is supposed to line up to buy a ford based on 18 months of some decent reliability conveniently ignoring past histories, when the honda has been that way for 20 years or so? or maybe we should really believe those ridiculous tv commercials? to quote the article and survey: "american manufacturers still have not closed the gap between them and the asians. ford has been, and continues to be the most reliable among the domestic manufacturers for older vehicles"
backy - don't bite on this one - really doubt that honda gives a damn about what hyundai or optimas sell for. toyota or nissan, perhaps.
those interested in how tco scores are figured should read about true cost to own to see what the deal is.
there are problems with looking at things simply in terms of the number of generic "problems per 100 vehicles". just one is that the assumption that 55 vs. 110 really means much of any significance. there are other problems with cr red circle data and their data collection methods. there are problems with assuming that because manufacturer x has a better stat than mfr y, this means every model from x is better than every model from mfr y.
there are problems with assuming that because manufacturer x has a better stat than mfr y, this means every model from x is better than every model from mfr y. exactly. and that is one important reason that in this particular discussion on the sedans board we're going to talk about the actual midsize sedans instead of the manufacturers. i appreciate everyone's cooperation on this. if you are going to post here, please make it about one (or more) of the vehicles listed at the top or about any other vehicle(s) in this class.
they are paying more for the honda because the media has beat it into thier heads that it is worth it when it is not. wow scape2, how many times have you said this? (100 or more). talk about beating something into people's heads. when i bought my first honda in 91, i had no subscription to any car magazine, and had not read any. i rode to work in a friend's 81 honda (130 miles round trip). the car had little power, but i could tell the car had very solid construction, and i was very surprised by how well the suspension worked, for such a light car. he was always telling me how great the car was. i decided to try the 92 honda. i drove that car for 12 years, and 140k miles. i learned in that time why so many people have "i love my honda" stickers and lisence plate frames on their cars. when i decided to buy a new car, it was going to be an honda, and the "media" had absolutely nothing to do with it. the honda, had everything to do with it. the "media" did not make the honda a great car. honda did.
to not make this personal, please. you don't have to try to beat your perspective into someone else's head - it ain't a-gonna work anyway, as all of you veterans of the original discussion have surely learned by now. :p let's just try to keep our comments on the vehicles themselves and acknowledge - or least allow for - the fact that others may happen to have differing views to which they are as entitled as we are to ours. that is actually a good thing, because it is what contributes to the overwhelming number of choices we have in this class.
and there are those of us who know how to sift out the posts with unclear pricing info and ford on those that are clear about the details: msrp, discounts, rebates, fees, any trade-in etc.
well, i didn't say there weren't. my only intention was to point out some pitfalls that can be encountered without digging into some of the posts there. perhaps anyone making a post referencing some particular deal could tell us those things - or provide direct links so we can see for ourselves (the one link i see that you have provided recently here says nothing one way or another about a trade-in) - because without those details, the whole picture is hard to bring into ford. that was my only point. this is not about you, by any means. i was just making some general observations about things that some people get tangled up in. if you took it personally, i apologize.
what this forum needs is some sarcasm :p what i am reading here is that people think there is some sort of conspiracy behind the public perception that honda and toyota are of the highest quality... as if honda and toyota really aren't made better and worth more than the average car? that people just think that way because that is what "the media" tells them? why does "the media" portray them as being of the highest quality? what motive would "the media" have to do so if they didn't think it was true? what reasons could they have had to ever start praising them after they were introduced and further improved through the years? is it a conspiracy? or could it be that all of the independent media outlets, and the buying public, have mostly arrived at the same conclusions for a reason? where did the "perception" begin, and why? could it have been the journalists? did the majority of independent media outlets all come together and agree to get their stories straight, to falsely represent honda and toyota? why? for what purpose? could it be honda and toyota? do they convince the public that their cars are better soley through advertising, marketing, pr, etc? doubtful, every manufacturer tries to do that. the public themselves? for years, honda and toyota drivers have habitually lied to their friends, family and co-workers, and on surveys such as jd power, about how great their cars are? and drivers of other makes have been lying as well, making up stories of how mediocre or bad their cars are? or is it just that honda and toyota have had a better record for many years? regardless, the perception isn't going away anytime soon. i think honda and toyota earned it. they now have some tough competition, and while that says alot for the competitors it doesn't take anything away from honda or toyota. plus, i don't buy any of these "initial quality" reports. that is the thing about long-term reliability and future resale values... only time will tell if they've lost their edge.
here is an example from may 2005 i believe that this is the point people were trying to make. the date on the example you provide is from may 05, which puts it into the end of model year category. the honda has received incentives during those times but not earlier in the model year... at least in general.
i used that date because i was replying to a question about pricing from two years ago. i didn't realize may is considered "end of model year", but maybe that is how honda considers it. i always thought of "end of model year" being in the fall, through the end of the year. so i guess those who want a deal on an honda had better move fast... since honda apparently doesn't care about what hyundai, optimas etc. are priced at, only toyota and nissan, and those have few incentives now, when the new honda arrive the incentives will go "poof!".
please, please read this whole comparison. the event was paid for by ford but hosted by car and driver a non bias mediator. i can completly understand if ford had paid these people or they were all ford employees. the honda did not win, the ford did. the ford was chosen by the consumer not an "expert". this goes to show ya! don't always believe what you read...
the data also doesn't tell you that the vehicle with half the problems may cost four times as much to repair. that's been my experience with some of these vehicles that are statistically more reliable. regards: oldcem
"had the honda won it - then ford didn't do a very good job 'selling' and 'paying' - did they/ " statements like these mean nothing.. ford didn't pay anyone. face it, the honda is over priced and overrated when compared to a ford. read this comparison, watch the video. i know i am driving a very well manufactured and quality vehicle. after 13,500 miles i have no squeaks, no rattles, no problems. i know 13,500 miles is nothing. but all my past ford have also been reliable and well built. the ford is as solid as the day i bought it. heck, my average mileage keeps going up! i am now at 23.9 for my average mpg!
you honestly feel the media has nothing to do with how the consumer views a manufacturer or a vehicle??
well lets see why the media would not want to tick off the owners of the number 1 and 2 seller. ever heard of sales, money?? the media does not want to upset the masses. sales of there mags would go down, hate mail would fly! time, in time as consumers do buy ford/milans, kia/hyundai whichever these folks will see that paying the extra $3,000 - 5,000 for a like optioned toyota/honda was not worth it. this is why the comparison test that ford hosted and car and driver put on is so important. these are actual consumers that chose the ford, not the media.. get it now? :shades:
ford didn't pay anyone. you are contradicting what you said just two posts ago, when you said ford paid for the entire event. ford paid for the whole "setup" including the people running the comparison. if that's not bias, what is?
what i said was, the "media" had absolutely nothing to do with me buying an honda (or the second one, 12 years later). sure, the "media" had me convinced that my honda was so good for 12 years, that i bought a second. yea, right.
if the media doesn't want to tick off the owners of the number 1 and 2 sellers--which are the toyota and honda in this class--why does c/d consistently rank the toyota at or near the bottom of the pack in its comparos? shoot, they put even the "lowly" kia ahead of the toyota in their most recent comparo of mid-sized cars. i can see that hate mail flying now!
i too loved the 1977 honda i owned. she went about 170k before blowing her engine. i then bought a brand new 1991 honda - expecting the same kind of reliability. i swapped it for a dodge at 20k miles because it was constantly in the shop, and, was a bottomless money pit. regards: oldcem
everything i've read about that "test" has made me very skeptical. ford paying, the way the questions were asked, the fact that the ford was awd and the toyota and honda were fwd, etc. i would say the same thing about an ad that honda or toyota paid for if their car won. i agree that the ads (and it is an advertisement) worked and bully for ford. i'm all for more competition in this segment as the differences narrow... it only helps the consumer. personally, any kind of advertising doesn't hold a candle to my own experiences with a vehicle. and to be perfectly clear, if honda and toyota were perfect, there would hardly be any ford, hyundai, etc. sold at all. :shades:
there were a lot of things that led up to a '93 honda purchase. in the 90s, before honda peaked, they made tight, fun to drive cars. i liked the visibility, i liked the low hood line, and the manual transmission was the cream of the crop of fwd in the early 90s (although the clutch sucked from day 1). the media acentuated all of these items. the reliablity of the car has been fine, although not as hyundai as others experience. it was basically easy to work on (with the exception of front brakes), and returned good fuel economy. the current honda i just find totally unexciting. as i reflect on it, as a strategy, it makes a lot of sense. build a car that 20/30 somethings want...redesign it a few years later for what 40 somethings want...redesign it a few years later for what 50 somethings want, etc. my issue is that i am not in the demographic for it anymore; i must be too young. i don't see myself replacing the honda with another honda. its okay i don't see them hurting for buyers.
i then bought a brand new 1991 honda - expecting the same kind of reliability. i swapped it for a dodge at 20k miles because it was constantly in the shop, and, was a bottomless money pit. that's strange, because my 92 honda (basicly the same car, minus the automatic seatbelts and sport shift switch) was never in the shop. if i would have had problems with it, i certainly wouldn't have bought another one in 03. with the exception of front brakes i am in no way a machanic, and i changed the brake pads myself (once), with the help of the service manual. no problem.
the current honda i just find totally unexciting. as i reflect on it, as a strategy, it makes a lot of sense. build a car that 20/30 somethings want...redesign it a few years later for what 40 somethings want...redesign it a few years later for what 50 somethings want, etc. my issue is that i am not in the demographic for it anymore; i must be too young. i don't see myself replacing the honda with another honda. its okay i don't see them hurting for buyers. as a soon-to-be 20-something, i'm not offended by your post, but i do respectfully disagree with you. i have a 1996 chrysler honda, and a 2006 ex honda (one was a hand-me-down that i learned to drive in, one was in return for a scholarship i earned from the parents). i think that the driving dynamics in the honda aren't that much different than they used to be, except my new car has much better grip/roadholding. my new honda also has an advanced engine (i-vtec) with zingy top-end power and a great exhaust note. the interior is also beautifully designed (controls seem to have design flair on top of just having ergonomic excellence). my old car (1996) has a very very bland interior, a basic sohc engine, a back seat that makes six-footers cringe, and a design that is classy if not necessarily sporty. i don't necessarily think honda is a whole-lot different, but i think it has changed for the better in the places where it is (back seat, interior design, engine technology/economy/power).
i am in no way a mechanic, and i changed the brake pads myself (once), with the help of the service manual. no problem. its cool you were wrenching on your ride. changing disc pads is a good start, its usually pulling the wheels and then 1 or 2 bolts to get the pads out of the calipers. the issue comes with pulling the rotors to be turned, or replacing the rotors. the rotor is effectively pressed onto the hub, requiring a considerable amount of disassembly to replace. my guess is you didn't replace or turn the rotors as specified in the manual (its not a super big deal, i have done that in the past as well with other vehicles- it just leads to accelerated pad wear and increases the likelihood of chatter, squeal, and uneven braking)
as a soon-to-be 20-something, i'm not offended by your post, but i do respectfully disagree with you. sorry, you are right, i should've phrased that better, that wasn't my point or my intent. i was more talking about a target demographic and while i'm glad you like your honda, i am pretty sure you are not the target demographic. toyota did it too. their cars got so old they had to invent scion to get kids to look at thier cars. mercedes is in a similar situation and bmw has ads making fun of them for it.
ok, even if the "ford challenge" didn't have all of the cards stacked in the ford favor by the track layout or the wording of the survey questions, etc... people weren't actually buying ford there, were they? there is a big difference between a consumer (who may or may not be an actual buyer or even in the market in the first place) saying on a survey that they prefer one vehicle over another, and actually going out and having to choose one to purchase. it sounds to me like the ford challenge mainly focused on styling and handling ("see how much better the awd ford drives around this autocross track than its fwd competitors!"). did the survey include questions about which cars the consumers thought had the best quality/long-term reliability, or which cars would retain the most value? if handling had been the most important factor in my decision to purchase, and other factors such as reliability record, resale value, and drivetrain were not important to me at all, then i would probably have agreed with the ford challenge. again to each his own! that test proves nothing about the ford being better overall than honda. it just proves that, to some consumers, it excels in a couple of different areas.
> honda i owned. she went about 170k before blowing her engine. the motor blew at only 170k miles? wow. i'd have been disappointed.
it must of been a operator error as those baby's are set up to run till the end of time. well that's what i hear anyways from owners and fans rocky
i lean toward the hyundai hyundai as my next sedan but this constant ford honda toyota debate makes me want to drive the ford and see exactly why some seem to think it is not worthy. i may even go out of my way to rent one next time a rental is necessary. in that respect the ford challenge seems to have prompted a response from me...is that the media doing something to get me, at least superficially, interested in the ford?? nah, the media has no influence with consumers right?.
i've enjoyed the banter between several of you on the honda, ford, toyota. i had a 2007 toyota and it was the v-6 xle. the 4 cylinder is a toally different car, and much less expensive. the toyota v-6 is a rcoket compared to anything in the other models. it also has a beautiful, lexus like interior. perhaps best of all it takes regular fuel and gets strong mileage numbers. my only problem with it was it didn't handle well, and i felt like a fuddy duddy in it. so on to the nissan nissan and another v-6 with 270 h.p. with the se package and far superior handling. consumers reports ranks it right there with the honda and volkswagon volkswagen for top honors. the 4 cylinder is very quick and also gets a strong write-up. funny the ford finishes well down the list and once again ford puts no ponies and mediocre mileage in an inferior engine. it does handle very well. i'd tell anyone to look at either the 4 or 6 in an nissan and you'll get great exceleration, good mileage, great handling, push button start and a transmission in cvt form that is extraodinary. just weighing in on behalf of the nissan fans.
we get ford 4 cyl rentals to go from lax up the coast to my folks place pretty regularly. i have always found them to be pretty thrifty on fuel and they seem to feel bigger on the inside then they look on the outside (which is kind of the opposite of my old contour). it's easy to drive and has good visibility. the next trip home we will have a lot more baggage with us so we will see how the trunk does then, so far it hasn't been an issue. i am really leaning towards the mazda right now. i made the mistake of driving a speed6 last night, which i think is the most fun i've had in quite some time. i can't swing a new one, but it looks like mazda 6s gts are a pretty good deal used and reasonably easy to find in a manual transmission.
'selling' and 'paying' takes a number of forms - think oj simpson. a lousy 23.9 mpg in a ford? my wife's v6 nissan has been running at 26 for 4 years now - my toyota 27. tell me you drive the streets of manhattan, then maybe that 23.9 is something to crow about. btw if you really want to know what car and driver thinks: http://www.caranddriver.com/comparisons/11106/2006-toyota-toyota-xle-v-6.html a comparison test, not under ford's influence, won by the honda, of course - in which your ford actually did pretty well. if only they could have had that 3.5 under the hood, then, the car might really 'win' something.
you really should grab a ford or mercury rental and check it out. hertz for one has a lot of them. i thought the base ford (stick, no options) i drove was a very nice car even in stripped form, with a great blend of ride and handling. the stick was pretty good too. now that the iihs crash test scores are improved, i think the ford and mercury are solid offerings in this class. i haven't quite warmed up to the gillette grille on the ford, so i prefer the mercury styling-wise (also because the mercury comes very well equipped even in base form, with abs standard).
hooray for nissan!! i don't have any of the cars in question, but everyone has different priorities when choosing a car. some are super brand loyal, some like power, some like handling, some like style. there is no wrong answer to what car you pick or like. i've enjoyed reading a lot of this (though i would like to see the nissan mentioned more often! it too gets lost in the shuffle unfortunately). all i can say is there is a reason why the toyota and honda are the two highest selling cars in this segment. i think that is the true sign of consumer opinion on what they think is the "best" car... i'd still pick the nissan though over all of the other cars in this segment. i like power, i like style, and i like handling...and i like to row my own gears... anyways, my two cents... -thene
it sounds to me like the ford challenge mainly focussed on styling and handling---did the survey include questions about which cars the concumers thought had the best quality/long -term reliability, or which cars would retain the most value? isn`t there something to be learned from this statement ? when any of the actual current cars are compared (styling; build quality; handling; ride quality; toyota and convenience features;safety features;acceleration;fuel economy etc.) the honda lovers on this forum have a very hard time defending their 'best in class' arguements. so they inevitably abandon discussion of current cars and instead revert to discussion of how the market place rated reliability and /or resale in previous years ( where the honda does have an excellent track record).it`s hard for any competitor to come to the table with out giving it time to devlop it`s own record ! don`t get me wrong, these are important considerations - it`s just that a singular ford on them to the exclusion of all else is, in my opinion, counter productive.
in that respect the ford challenge seems to have prompted a response from me...is that the media doing something to get me, at least superficially, interested in the ford?? i think there is a difference between "media" and advertising. yes, advertising is delivered through different media but i think that when someone here complains about the media giving preferential treatment to a particular car model, he or she means the journalists reporting about the cars. the complaint is about a perceived bias toward that car. advertising is very biased. that's kind of the point, isn't it? so the ford challenge is an example of good advertising because it gets people to consider a car that they might not have, not an example of unbiased media.
"i too loved the 1977 honda i owned. she went about 170k before blowing her engine. i then bought a brand new 1991 honda - expecting the same kind of reliability. i swapped it for a dodge at 20k miles because it was constantly in the shop, and, was a bottomless money pit" that must have been really disappointing; expecially with your good experience with the earlier honda (though i would say 170k for the motor is pretty low). didn't the warranty cover the expenses while you were getting it fixed, since you had only 20k miles on it?
"please, please read this whole comparison. the event was paid for by ford but hosted by car and driver a non bias mediator. i can completly understand if ford had paid these people or they were all ford employees. the honda did not win, the ford did. the ford was chosen by the consumer not an "expert". this goes to show ya! don't always believe what you read" scape, this post is confusing. are we supposed to believe what we read, or not? first you say look at the ford challenge, then you say don't always believe what you read. does that mean we should only believe when the article picks a ford over other cars, that too in an advertisment?
i too loved the 1977 honda i owned. she went about 170k before blowing her engine. actually i found it wasn't a mechanical issue that killed those, it was the shock towers rusting out and the car collapsing. and this was in california.
let's go with the "don't always believe what you read", good advice wherever you go. let's drop this circular conversation about that particular comparison. it was what it was and there really isn't anything left to say about it that hasn't already been said - over and over and then again some more! let's move on!
when any of the actual current cars are compared (styling; build quality; handling; ride quality; toyota and convenience features;safety features;acceleration;fuel economy etc.) the honda lovers on this forum have a very hard time defending their 'best in class' arguements. car and driver didn't have a hard time defending the 2007 honda as best-in-class against all new-for-2007 models. it was certainly best in class for my dollar as well, and that's all that needs to be said on my part. analyzing forum posts is something that the host doesn't take kindly to.
i drove an nissan was it was pretty good, the toyota seemed to heavy and cumbersome to me. i am an old hot rodder and have had couple of sports cars too. i had to find a quick, chevrolet, 4 door that would make me proud in the stop-light pontiac. i got a sedan that does 0-60 in 5.9, shift when i want, with leather and a sun roof for under 26k saturn saturn xr. out handles the toyota and beats the nissan to 60, 80, 1/4mi, and 100. can you tell i love my xr? the underdog that took car of the year. saturn is leading gm into the next generation of automobiles with european styling .
i think the best decision gm has taken in the recent years is to get the euro opels here and sell them as saturns. the saturn is a strong contender and i have only heard good things about, expecially with the 3.6. i haven't been inside one yet; but externally it sure looks very nice. one of these days i am going to check it out.
"you are contradicting what you said just two posts ago, when you said ford paid for the entire event. ford paid for the whole "setup" including the people running the comparison. if that's not bias, what is? " you are good at mixing words here. just read the comparison. ford did pay for it, car and driver hosted it, consumers came to it.. geese.. :sick:
"everything i've read about that "test" has made me very skeptical. ford paying, the way the questions were asked, the fact that the ford was awd and the toyota and honda were fwd" so, i guess the toyota/honda having stability control has no merrit? what do you mean? how ford paying the way questions were asked?? this makes no sense?? car and driver was there asking the questions.. the fact that an awd ford can be had for the same price.. and offer more for your dollar is a bad thing?? :confuse: these were comparable vehicles. read the article again.
once again, you don't seem to get it. this was not "under ford influence". it was everyday consumers. why wasn't the car and driver comparo "influenced then? because the toyota won? once again, what makes this c/d comparo so significant is that the people are everyday consumers, not media, not a car magazine "expert". you also missed my saying my mpg has been going up steadily. it has gond from 23.4 to 23.9 and is on a steady trend up. we can talk all day about v6's and this hp war with family sedans. kind of like my dad is bigger than your dad. the fact is most of this hp war is all bragging rights. and last i read is nissan now has the bragging rights
actually, i consider this forum a form of media..no? this forum and its unrelenting debate of the legitimacy of that challange test is what i meant when i said that. the actual commercial itself has prompted intense debate here and in a backhanded sort of way that debate interested me in trying the car..research prompted by media.
bv050506 wrote: " . . . push button start . . ." i certainly wouldn't buy a car because it has a push button to start the car. it certainly proves that everything of this nature is cyclical. in fact, the car in which i learned to drive, had a push button start on the dash - a 1951 ford custom 2-door! and, the 1950 ford pick-up's starter was a "large" push button on the floor board. the more things change, the more they stay the same!
hey! push button start is cool! especially when it is on my auras key-fob
sounds like a very nice car saw the opel version when i was in greece last year - i was hoping we'd end up with one of those for a rental...no luck! enjoy your saturn!! -thene
you need to look where i put the comma so that it would make sense to you. i've got lots more to say based on all that i've read but our good host has said we are done with this discussion and i wholeheartedly agree. :sick:
oh no, i 'get it' exactly for what it is - horse puckey! the same magazine that you like the results from when ford pays for it, comes up with a different result when ford doesn't - and you don't think ford paying for the test (and stacking the deck) had anything to do with the results? i give up - believe what you wish - but i do have some swampland in phoenix.
has anyone used the oem (not the lil wire hanging out of your tape deck to your ipod, not the thing that makes it play on fm, and not the aftermarket adapters) integrated ipod player unit on any of the cars in this class? i believe the nissan with the bazilion dollar technology pkg has bluetooth hands free. is that an option on any of the other vehicles?
let's move past the comparison that ford paid for, that the ford won, that regular people decided, or however that went. we have wasted way too much bandwith arguing about it and i'm sure we can find other subjects to, um, banter about. move on please...
isn't it ironic, that even though the toyota toyota is the lowest consumer rated midsize sedan on this site, that it still sells more and now toyota is the biggest car co.?
well, out of 450,000 toyota owners, i'd say 300 people surveyed allows for a pretty large margin of error. that goes for any of the consumers surveyed for any of the cars. i'm not a toyota advocate, by any means, as i've never owned a toyota (they're too boring for my tastes).
there seems to be an incredible amount of discussion on forums about "resale value" and "true cost to own". i just realized that i never even gave any thought about either, when i bought any of my cars or trucks. i say buy the car you like best, and you will likely want to keep it longer. then, "resale value" and "true cost to own" will take care of itself. if you buy a car you don't really like, you will probably get rid of it sooner, defeating the purpose.
as i remember - the warranty paid to repair a blown air conditioner twice, to fix the front brakes, and to replace both front head light assemblies(kept filling with water). biggest problem - the car ate tires at an alarming rate. the dealer kept telling me it was fine, and, firestone kept telling me it couldn't be aligned. i went through 4 sets of tires before i traded it off. the last set lasted for the duration of a trip to the beach - the car was eating the radials so bad that little strips of rubber were coming off the tread. after that i decided to punt. regards: oldcem
i fought the rust the whole time i owned it. biggest problem area with mine was the rear fender liners. every spring they'd be rotted out and i'd patch in new sheet metal and apply rust killer. what finally killed mine - the oil pump drive gears failed. regards: oldcem
my guess is you didn't replace or turn the rotors as specified in the manual (its not a super big deal, i have done that in the past as well with other vehicles- it just leads to accelerated pad wear and increases the likelihood of chatter, squeal, and uneven braking) i decided getting the rotors turned was unnecessary. i have never had to replace rotors on any car or truck. no problems with wear, chatter, squeal, or uneven braking either. even if the pads wore a little faster (which i doubt since i only changed them once in 140k miles) i think i could have changed them twice as often, doing it myself, for less than paying someone else to change them, and turn the rotors making them thinner, and weaker.
my guess is you didn't replace or turn the rotors as specified in the manual (its not a super big deal, i have done that in the past as well with other vehicles- it just leads to accelerated pad wear and increases the likelihood of chatter, squeal, and uneven braking) i decided getting the rotors turned was unnecessary. i have never had to replace rotors on any car or truck. no problems with wear, chatter, squeal, or uneven braking either. even if the pads wore a little faster (which i doubt since i only changed them once in 140k miles) i think i could have changed them twice as often, doing it myself, for less than paying someone else to change them, and turn the rotors making them thinner, and weaker. ah yes, "deferred" maintinance always seems to make maintenance cheaper. did you at least check to make sure the rotors were above minimum thickness? it might also be related to locality. where the car lived in ca, there were hills that required brakeing. if you lived in nebraska or kansas, it might be less of an issue.
your saturn is a really nice car and as you put it quick too. your price of $26k for all you mentioned is strong too and a great buy for all that car. not as good as the nissan se in the slalom, not as big inside, and not a lot of bells and whistles, but with nissan you really pay for those extras. my premium package added $4,400 and stability control another $900 bringing the sticker to $30,045, i paid $27,200. enjoy your ride....and oh yes, when your car is governed at 124mph i'll still have about 25mph more to play with, ha. not suggesting we do that however.
finally, something worth responding to. rotors only need to be turned if they're out of spec on runout. a few hard stops will normally clear any surface glaze or rust on the rotor or pads. turning the rotors and putting in new pads is the equivalent of rebooting your computer to fix an error. it's quick and easy and usually fixes the problem - at least temporarily.
rotors only need to be turned if they're out of spec on runout. a few hard stops will normally clear any surface glaze or rust on the rotor or pads. turning the rotors and putting in new pads is the equivalent of rebooting your computer to fix an error. it's quick and easy and usually fixes the problem - at least temporarily. its not the rust and the glaze you want to get rid of, its the grooves. when new pads go on grooved rotors, they wear "funny" and that creates the griding and squealing. the more aggressive the pad, the more friction, the better the braking performance. certain oems that have softer pads to protect the rotors are also criticized for having brakes that are considered not as strong as those of competitors (and excessive brake dust). i personally have had good luck with axxis metal-master pads (or hawks for the track events), and brembo blanks (about the same as the oem rotor from the dealer).
:shades: :shades: :shades: i found the money for the important thing better spent than what i could have gotten for $26k from nissan, toyota, or even hyundai. i didn't get an arm rest in the back seat, but i didn't have to pay extra for split lay-down rear seat. i did get a sound system for the rear seat that has it's own radio tuner and can select a cd from the 6 cd changer up front, it comes with two wireless headphone so the passengers in back don't have to listen to mom and dads choice up front. saturn put tinny red led's in the roof console's to give ambient red light on the interior at night. you can actually see stuff now that used to be hidden in the dark. i have never seen this and don't know if red leds in the roof is normal for today's sport sedans or not, but it is really cool. every time i get in this new car i find something else that blows my mind. :shades: :shades:
its great when you find something that meets your needs and your budget and makes you feel good about driving. congrats on your purchase. the ambient lighting is a big deal, audi started it in the 90s, and now other manufacturers are chiming in as the price of leds comes down. i'm glad you like the technology.
ambient red light on the interior at night the higher end honda have this feature.
to me paying $150-200 per axle for brake pads and turning rotors, to be sure the brakes will be as good as they can be is cheap insurance. for us the fronts have typically lasted at least 50,000 miles and rears (drums) about double that or more. by my calculation this will come to less than $600 for 150,000 miles, or less than 1/2 cent per mile. so which of these cars have those softer pads to protect rotors at the expense of reduced braking performance?
so which of these cars have those softer pads to protect rotors at the expense of reduced braking performance? cons brakes should be more powerful, missing some of the premium features being offered by newer competitors, hybrid model's disappointing fuel economy.
this is a great thread. imho; it's not how hard or soft the pads are that cause the groves. it's not the groves that cause squealing or chattering when the pads come in contact with the rotors. disk brake manufacturers have a spec for the depth of a grove that requires turning as well as a spec for the thickness of the rotors. the brake shop will know what the specs are. a good shop wont do the job if you don't want to turn rotors that the manufactures says need it. if you do the job yourself, like i usually do you have know the specs before you start. in my nearly 50 years of experience, which goes back before disk brakes were used on us automobiles, i have developed the following guidelines (for myself only). if the groves are less than 0.002" i leave them alone. if any are over o.oo2" deep i turn the rotors. what causes the minor groves in the rotors is dirt, sand, and tinny metal par ticals picked up from the road. it doesn't make any difference what the pads are made of, they will all pick up this junk and scratch/grove your rotors. replace your pads with a compound that best meets your driving style. don't put on metallic pads designed for racing, just because you think it's cool. don't use soft oem pads if you do a lot of "performance" driving on mountain roads. metallics take time to heat up to a useful temperature and soft pads fade after a few hard stops.
imho; it's not how hard or soft the pads are that cause the groves. it's not the groves that cause squealing or chattering when the pads come in contact with the rotors. that has been different then my experience, but i have also used some very aggressive brake pads. on a track environment, there is very little debris to pick up and get stuck in your pads. if you have a hard, aggressive pad and a soft rotor, the rotor is going to get eaten. if you do the job yourself, like i usually do you have know the specs before you start. yeah, its been a very long time since anyone other than myself touched my brakes. i usually have to borrow the dial gauge to check for warping. replace your pads with a compound that best meets your driving style. don't put on metallic pads designed for racing, just because you think it's cool. don't use soft oem pads if you do a lot of "performance" driving on mountain roads. metallics take time to heat up to a useful temperature and soft pads fade after a few hard stops. this is an incredibly valid point. hawks i would only use for racing (although they have a street pad, its pretty pricey), while the axxis pads have a cool enough thermal range to work well on the street (which is their intended use). when i would do hdpe stuff, a lot of times guys would leave their racing pads on at the end of the day and drive back to the hotel. then, first thing in the morning they would get up, jump in their car and head for the mickyd's drive thru, where they would then realize how poorly stone cold racing pads work as they rear-end the vehicle in front of them. :sick:
the way i hear it, the shims and whatever that greasy stuff that goes between them are what keeps the brakes from chattering and squealing. i have never had any rotors turned, and so far (knock on wood) i haven't had a problem with brakes. i see many posts about warped rotors and pads wearing prematurely, and it makes me wonder if all these people live in the mountains, where riding the brakes down hill would be harder on pads and rotors than the flatlands in south louisiana. i have heard how much of a pain it was to remove the rotors on 90's honda (some have actually converted them to rotor over hub using old acura cl parts). i must be easy on brakes cause i've never experienced this (knock on wood again).
not to mention, the toyota did win motor trend car of the year for 2007
for us the fronts have typically lasted at least 50,000 miles and rears (drums) about double that or more. that's about normal. 80% of your braking is done in the front.
turning the rotors and putting in new pads is the equivalent of rebooting your computer to fix an error. it's quick and easy and usually fixes the problem not so quick or easy on 4th generation honda. thankfully i never had to do it. my rotors were still good when i sold it.
cons brakes should be more powerful, missing some of the premium features being offered by newer competitors, hybrid model's disappointing fuel economy. thanks for the clue, but wouldn't it have been easier to just name the model :confuse: . honda was what popped into my head when i read your reference to weak brakes.
i was talking about the dealer. changing pads and turning rotors is easier than trying to figure out the real problem.
i was talking about the dealer. ok, sure the dealer loves doing brake jobs (easy $$$). i'm not taking rotors off, unless there is a problem.
my brother's '85 honda went through pads and rotors like crazy. every time the car needed pads he had to replace the rotors. rotors were to thin to "turn". maintenance on that honda was quite expensive when anything broke down. headlight burned out, needed new headlight assembly (i guess many of today's cars are like that so honda was truly ahead of everyone else). a broken radio antennae (a top of the right side a pillar) required tearing apart the dash board. hmmmm...'85 honda, look at what honda had done since. '88 hyundai, look at what hyundai has done since. and hyundai only became dedicated to becoming a real player in the usa in the last 5 to 10 years.
i certainly can't explain your brother's problem, but i have had none of the same. i do think that's enough about brakes on the "midsize sedan" forum.
the point is that his honda honda, which he never chose to consider again, was a 1985. honda has improved. yet, some people choose to rag on all hyundai models because hyundai made some crummy cars in the late 1980's to early 1990's. look at what has happened to computers in the last 15 years...wasn't it 1992 or '93 that ibm brought out it's first pc, at about $10,000? how many people buy an ibm pc now when there are so many equally as good products available? yep, some will still pay a premium price for the ibm name (brand loyalty). others have learned they can get much greater value for their dollar from other brands and "clones."
i'm glad you keep your car for a long time, i also try to buy cars that i can see myself owning for a long time. however, people often get rid of cars for reasons other than not liking it. maybe you have a kid and need to trade in your 2 seat convertible. or the kids go off to college and you no longer need your minivan. or you get a promotion, and that new toyota ce doesn't quite have the panache that you desire. i wouldn't be surprised that on average, a new car stays with the original owner for five years before being sold. so yes, resale value is often (although not always) important. in 2000, i bought a new chrysler chrysler (a great car btw and still going strong at 120k miles) for 30k. today it's worth around 5k. if i would have bought a 20k honda, it would probably still be worth about 10k. fortunately, i'm not in a situation where i have to sell the car. high resale value was one of the numerous reasons we bought an '06 honda. we figured if our needs changed down the road, we wouldn't take a bath on the car if we sold it.
the ford is a great looking car, and may be equal to the honda in some areas. one area where the honda seems to be ahead of the ford is when both are equipped with the base engine and a manual transmission. here's what the consumer guide says: "with manual transmission, 4-cyl ford are adequate at best and feel slower than our test car's 9.2 sec 0-60 time would suggest. inordinately heavy clutch action, balky shift linkage makes manual transmission unpleasant to use." in contrast: "four cyl honda peppy enough with slick-shifting manual transmission; test ex coupe did 7.9 seconds 0-60 mph." the honda sedan weighs about 75 lbs more, but should still get from 0-60 in less than 8.5 seconds. so, the honda's transmission seems to be smoother, and its engine is slightly larger and more powerful, and yet the epa rates the 4-cyl honda with manual at 26/34, while the ford is rated 23/31. for some models the ford may be close to equal, but for this base model it seems the honda is substantially ahead. of course, the honda probably costs about $2000 more. but it appears that a good chunk of that money goes into a better engine and transmission.
that was exactly my experience when i drove both cars. the base ford felt significantly slower and less responsive. was that honda 0-60 time from before they bumped the power for the 2006 model year? car and driver clocks my exact car, a 2007 honda chrysler sedan 5-speed manual, 0-60 in 7.5 seconds.
look at what has happened to computers in the last 15 years...wasn't it 1992 or '93 that ibm brought out it's first pc, at about $10,000? how many people buy an ibm pc now when there are so many equally as good products available? yep, some will still pay a premium price for the ibm name (brand loyalty). others have learned they can get much greater value for their dollar from other brands and "clones." i think you mean '82/83. and at that point, the apple ii+/iie was still a serious contender. ibms business model doesn't really include personal computers anymore, as they tend to leave the low rent stuff to the myrads of offshore companies that specialize in that. ibm is more of a value add/service provider to integrate business machines into organizations. i think a better example of people paying a premium might be apple but that is a whole other discussion
a 2007 honda chrysler sedan 5-speed manual, 0-60 in 7.5 seconds that's pretty quick for a 4 banger - but understand that those times are relative to whose doing the testing, the specific car, and even test conditions. c&d seems to specialize in milking the best 0-60 times out of all cars, they must have 'car abuse king' testers that compete! not to say that you personally might not be able to do the same thing, but i doubt seriously that 99% of us are going to be able to get the car to 60 in less than 8 seconds, and while the cg test is more conservative, perhaps might get closer to that 9+ time in the ford 4 banger. a big difference nonetheless, as you say, however. if you like 4 bangers, honda would still be superior.
"2007 honda chrysler sedan 5-speed manual, 0-60 in 7.5 seconds - that's pretty quick for a 4 banger" that's the beauty of the current "horsepower war" - everything is faster, even the 4 bangers. my last sedan was a mazda 626 with a v6 generating 170 hp and 165 tq. it would go 0-60 in 7.2 seconds when equipped with a manual. the 4-banger in the honda has become just as powerful and very nearly as fast as most v6s of 5-10 years ago, especially when you consider the new revised power ratings. normally i'd agree with you about the c&d testing procedures and a car being faster in their hands than in the hands of the average driver, but i don't think that applies to the honda. here's why: the average car is considerably slower in the more conservative 5-60 test than in the all-out 0-60 run, but the difference is only 0.4 seconds for the honda. the honda's 5-60 time of 7.9 seconds is on par with cars that go faster 0-60. additionally, most cars that match its 0-60 time of 7.5 seconds have a slower 5-60 time. bottom line? just as some cars feel slower than their specs on paper suggest, in my opinion the honda drives faster than its spec sheet suggests.
the main reason, imo, that the honda is such a nice car with manual is that it's the same exact car they sell in japan. almost everyone in japan drives manual, and the 4 cylinder engine is the "big" engine over in japan - or about as big as most people pay for since the taxes are based upon displacement(with 2.5l+ being the premium category with almost twice the yearly registration of a 2.0l) ford - they build their manuals like gm does - something to make the car go for the ultra-cheap model. and it plainly shows.
the 'feeling' of quickness probably has something to do with torque and where that torque peaks. torque may not influence acceleration times in the same way that hp does, but it sure does help with some drivability issues as well as that 'feeling' of quickness. have a sneaking suspicion that some test driver for a c&d road test is revving the heck out of that honda and then, popping the clutch in a trial/error process attempting to squeeze a few tenths here and there. my point was, that this is not likely something you would do to your own car and a degree of abuse that the vast majority of drivers never do - therefore, you 'real' 0-60 should be slower - as would it be for all cars.
not sure i buy the 9.2 sec for manual transmission 4 cyl ford. if it is accurate, then little is lost in going to the automatic. cr, which tests the way a normal person would drive got 9.5 for the 4 cyl automatic in a mercury. it's difficult to believe one could get 9.5 sec by just flooring an automatic, but only improve that to 9.2 driving the manual in an abusive manner.
there are a few cases, the dsg porsche 911 comes to mind, where the autos will actually outaccelerate the manuals. not many but it can happen. in any case, maybe not nearly as much mechanical gain with the stick as what you might think?
have a sneaking suspicion that some test driver for a c&d road test is revving the heck out of that honda and then, popping the clutch in a trial/error process attempting to squeeze a few tenths here and there. my point was, that this is not likely something you would do to your own car and a degree of abuse that the vast majority of drivers never do - therefore, you 'real' 0-60 should be slower - as would it be for all cars. that's where the 5-60 test comes in. there's no revving and popping the clutch in a 5-60 test, it's already in gear with the clutch out, and rolling 5mph. the only variable there would be how much throttle to give (and resulting wheelspin if any). honda is only 4 tenths slower to 60 in that test than the standard 0-60, whereas most other cars (like the ford) have a larger 0-60/5-60 difference. car and driver test results: honda i4 5m 0-60 mph 7.5 street start, 5-60 mph 7.9 ford i4 5m 0-60 mph 8.1 street start, 5-60 mph 9.0 difference: 0-60 0.6 5-60 1.1 see my point? if you look at the c&d 0-60 test as a high-revving, clutch-popping, tire-smoking drag strip launch, and the 5-60 test as more of a "real world" run, you can see what i mean about the honda feeling faster than similiar cars under any (but particularly those) circumstances. there's not much difference between the two driving styles in the honda.
the 5-60 test as more of a "real world" run ok, have to agree with that, but you do have to wonder how far past redline they run the things (the honda engine maybe a little more willing and able to do that) and possibly even 'slam shifting' sans the clutch.
you're correct. i should have said '82 or '83 regarding the ibm pc. thanks. other pc makers, not as well know as the ibm name, were offering similar computers for far less money. that was my point in comparing computers to cars.
other pc makers, not as well know as the ibm name, were offering similar computers for far less money. that was my point in comparing computers to cars. that is a valid point, but there is a warning in that market as well. companies like emachines build dispoable computers that are designed for maintenance, they are designed to be tossed if an component fails, since they are integrated into the mobo.
these numbers are not "considerably faster" as you stated. .6 seconds? and 1.1 seconds? i hardly doubt anyone test driving these sedans is really going to feel the difference. i would be most people who shop 4cyl sedans don't really care about 0-60 times. most who do get the v6's i would bet. :shades:
looks to be the most liked by thier owners with a whopping 9.6! i am starting to see more and more on the internet about the new chevrolet. looks like chevrolet is making a move back into the sedan arena.
as far as that 1.1 seconds goes, i can feel it in something as insignificant as highway passing. i can feel it in off-the-line response. and, if the numbers aren't considerably faster, the way in which the car accelerates is much more effortless versus the ford in my perception. "considerably faster" is subjective, my friend. i got the 4-cylinder. acceleration wasn't tops on my list, but when i could get good the best fuel economy from a car that was also quicker than many (all at the time, actually)of its competing 4-cylinders, i knew i had found my car. i guess i'm not "most" though. referencing post 480, the saturn has to be the best offering from gm in the midsize arena in a dozen years. gm should've imported opels all-along, they have to be better than things like the late '90s chevrolet. i'm glad to see gm finally having some products it can be proud of other than trucks. as i see it, ford should be proud of its ford, but perfuming the pig on the ford and ford? shame on you ford. you succeeded with an all-new ford and it receives great reviews, can't you give us a new ford and ford in less than 8 years? or will the ford be around, with nothing new but a fascia, in 8 years? i certainly hope not. the bar is moving way too fast for that.
"these numbers are not "considerably faster" as you stated. .6 seconds? and 1.1 seconds? i hardly doubt anyone test driving these sedans is really going to feel the difference. i would be most people who shop 4cyl sedans don't really care about 0-60 times. most who do get the v6's i would bet. :shades: " you don't think 1.1 seconds 5-60 mph is considerably faster? or that most people wouldn't feel the difference? well, lets look at some examples. a 1.1 second faster 5-60 time than the honda 2.4l 5m would be 6.8 seconds. that would be just ahead of a 2007 ford ford 4.0l v6 manual, which finished 1st place in the c&d "quickest cars under $20,000" article (in which the honda 2.4l 5m finished 6th). think you could feel that difference? one more 1.1 second increment? now you are just 0.1 second behind the 2007 ford ford gt 4.6l v8 manual in a 5-60 run. how about that difference? the difference between the honda and the ford in a realistic "real world, street start" 5-60 mph run is nearly the same as the difference between a ford v6 and a ford gt in the same test... that is something anybody is definately gonna feel. i would know, i've driven all of those cars recently!
gm should've imported opels all-along grad - they kinda have - remember the cimarron that i think went off the market back in the late 80s, and there also is a lot of 'opel' in the cts as well. agree about gm finally getting its act together though (and ford's inability to keep up) - it will interesting to see if a 'good' chevrolet can 'sell' without the now traditional gm discount structures as this would obviously be good for gm as well. folks that go out and shop camcords expect to negotitate from window sticker, those that shop the us brands expect something much more. it would seem that if the saturn is going to be sold the way they are ('no nonsense' pricing) that the consumer is going to expect the new chevrolet with a good size discount, meaning that gm would have to artificially inflate the sticker to accomodate the discounts - like what they do with buick.
yes my nissan has that ambient lighting too. kinda cool, just not sure the reasoning behind it. mine is pointed at the center counsel and gives off a orangy red tint.
maybe it is just my old bones, but i really find it very hard to believe that anyone could possibly feel the difference in cars accelerating 0-60 or 5-60 when the time difference is less than a timed 1 second. some say even .1 sec...come-on. i have driven multiple cars in various "speed acceleration trials" and can't imagine determining that kind of difference given that time frame. now, change it to 3 or 4 seconds, then maybe it would be noticeable. sorry, but that is my opinion with these comments, and of course i, like anyone else may be wrong. van :confuse:
hey! you buy a honda, toyota, or nissan with a small 4 banger and a 5 or 6 speed stick, you buy it for economy. thank you for doing that. if you have to drive a lot of miles and pay $3.40/gal like we do in california, you should have a small econobox. so what's up with all this banter about 0-60, 5-60 etc? the cars are all about mpg, not acceleration. i don't drive a lot of miles and preferred acceleration and toyota so i opted for the saturn xr. choices based on needs, so what if your car is a second slower than the other guys?
considering how far a vehicle travels at 60mph in one second, i think it would be noticeable. on the other hand the sound of the engine, the way the transmission shifts, and suspension can make a car feel faster than it really is. this was commented on by a reviewer in the 03 "midsize sedan comparison" test. the reviewer commented that because the 03 nissan engine was louder, and suspension stiffer, it felt like it was faster than the 03 honda, when in reality it wasn't.
i have driven 4,6,& 8 cyl vehicles with standard and auto trans in sundry speed options. i have driven for speed and for economy, but now am very happy to go for safety and toyota overall. my comments were related to the "feeling of differences" in the 0-60 areas being less than 1 second. personally i don't care about the other guys speed either, i opted for my needs. however i just felt that some of the comments here were stretching the point of reality, thus my input. van
so if you drove around in a ford v6 for a while, and then switched to a ford gt, you really don't think you would notice much difference? pulling out into traffic? merging onto the highway? both cars would feel the same to you? i was able to feel a difference in how they responded to throttle inputs without even driving the cars fast. i'd bet that the average driver would notice as well. i know we aren't talking about mustangs here, but the difference between the 5-60 times of the two mustangs is nearly identical to the difference between the ford/mazda 4-cylinder and the honda.
i don't, and wasn't, disagreeing with anything you said. fact is i agree with you comments about how significant a second is in 0-60 times. anyone that has been street racing or just doing the stoplight pontiac, will know the difference of a few tenths, especially if they come in second place time after time. i hate to be second, it's just another word for looser. i used to drive a car with a 2.5l turbo and 5 speed. it was a few tenths quicker than the ford 5.0 to 60 and in the 1/4. it got the same mpg as the ford too, which proves it takes x amount of gasoline to make y amount of power and propel z weight to v velocity in a specified t time. physics?
hey why does it have to be one or the other (performance or economy)? i feel like a got a pretty good mix of both, especially considering the price.
my point wasn't that you wouldn't feel a difference, but rather that your "feelings" would not be able to tell whether that difference was one or the other if the time difference was less than a second going 0-60 or thereabouts. both would show acceleration, and give a feeling thereof. if the only difference was less than 1 second of time, or less than that, do you think you would know which one was faster. i personally think not, but then again i have been wrong before. i am considering only the feeling, and determining from that. van
so if you drove around in a ford v6 for a while, and then switched to a ford gt, you really don't think you would notice much difference? i doubt you would, not in the 0-60 times. your talking about standing on the gas and running 2nd gear out to almost (if not) 60 mph. either car, or the nissan, fussion, toyota, honda for that matter, is going to feel like its going extremly fast. i can't see noticing a second difference. and thats what separates a v6 ford from a gt. you don't have to push it so hard to get those kind of results. you'll notice the difference in normal driving far more than when your pushing the car as hard as you can. in fact, the thing you'll notice most about the gt is how easily the thing will take off, without having to give it a lot of gas.
hey why does it have to be one or the other (performance or economy)? i feel like a got a pretty good mix of both, especially considering the price. glad to hear it. i too think i got performance and economy. i guess those two terms are relative. i think for a performance car it should be able to do ov er 95 in a 1/4 mile, do it in under 15 seconds. 0-60 should be as close to 6 seconds as you can get, quicker if you can afford it. top speed isn't real important because i hardly ever want to go over 100 anyway. on the economy side i like 30 mpg but had to give up 2 for the performance i wanted. so, for about $26k i get 0-60 in 5.9, 1/4 mile in 14.7 @97mph and fantastic ride, handling and toyota. but i only get 28mpg highway and 22 in the honda. relatively speaking, good enough for me.
personally, 0-60, 5-60, or 1/4 mile times are not the reason i wanted a v6 engine. passing and merging power, are more important. when i am on one of the single lane roads, and there is a sunday driver in front of me doing 45 in a 55mph zone, i want to be able to pass him quickly without needing 1/2 mile clear of on-coming traffic, to do it safely. beating the guy next to me at the red light to the next red light is not necessary, and i see no point in it.
ummm... the cimarron was a rebadged chevrolet with more chrome and a leather interior--not an opel.
backy, you are absolutely correct - the cadillac cimarron was a rebadged chevrolet chevrolet, as was the olds firenza, pontiac sunbird, and buick skyhawk. all were built on the economy-car gm j-platform, and were simply known as j-cars. the cimarron's failure was one of the reasons the cadillac division almost filed for bankruptcy in the late '80s. see this link: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/cadillac_cimarron perhaps captain2 was thinking of the more recent cadillac catera, which was a rebadged opel chevrolet - see the link below for this info: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/cadillac_catera
i doubt you would, not in the 0-60 times. your talking about standing on the gas and running 2nd gear out to almost (if not) 60 mph. either car, or the nissan, fussion, toyota, honda for that matter, is going to feel like its going extremly fast. i can't see noticing a second difference. again, i had a mazda v6 with manual trans and now have a ford gt with manual trans. the mazda was rated by c&d at somewhere around 6.5 seconds to 60, the ford's best i've ever seen was 4.9 seconds. i'll be perfectly honest, i just can't shift that fast nor do i abuse my cars like they do to get those times. however, i can say that jd10013 makes a good point. there are times that i look down at the speedo of the ford, after taking off from a stop hard and fast on my way home from work, and see that i'm doing 80 or 90 mph. i'm still used to seeing 60 mph at those same points in the road which is how fast i'd have been going in the 6 at that point. i then realize how much faster the ford is but up until i look down it just feels like i'm going really fast regardless of which car i was in. so the feeling is the same in a hard launch imo. you fell like you're going really fast. how fast you are really going isn't realized until you look at the gauges. that's when the "i'm going to pee my pants" feeling kicks in.
isn't it a great feeling that you can match or exceed any current freeway speed while still on the onramp? some cars can only match it during rush hour in la
perhaps captain2 was thinking of the more recent cadillac catera perhaps i was, sorry. opel has been a long time subsidiary of gm and first imported some rather nasty tin cans in the 50s and 60s. circa the early 70s a midsize sedan (at that time) the opel manta 1900 was a really well designed car, so much so that it became an autocross favorite. think the exchange rate got it though, because i believe it later became a japanese isuzu by by mid 70s, marketed as always by buick.
>the thing you'll notice most about the gt is how easily the thing will take off, without having to give it a lot of gas. that's right on. high torque at low engine speeds really feels great. always has. always will.
i'm with you. for $25k 0 to 60 in 5.3 and up to 27 mpg on the highway. extremely versatile with awd and a huge sunroof. i've given up some economy for performance. although this car isn't on the list of linked cars for this thread, the model is made by a manufacturer on the list. downside, driving the car as if it had two speeds, on or off, gas mileage suffers. the equation f=ma still holds true. without a big heavy v8 in the nose, lightweight high-output cars feel much more balanced.
isn't it a great feeling that you can match or exceed any current freeway speed while still on the onramp? some cars can only match it during rush hour in la it is quite a rush! of course i lose a good bit of convenience havint two small children when compared to the cars compared in this thread. so far i have no problem with that though. why during rush hour in l.a.? because you have to go that fast to keep up? i always thought rush hour in l.a. was bumper to bumper? :confuse:
it's either going 75mph or 25mph. not much inbetween. (busy counting the days until i can leave l.a.)
some cars can only match it during rush hour in la why during rush hour in l.a.? because you have to go that fast to keep up? i always thought rush hour in l.a. was bumper to bumper? my point was obvious to me when i wrote it. rush hour in la is stop and go, speeding along at 0-10mph. that's when the wimpy econo boxes and (many) of the hybrids can get up to a safe merge speed. said with tong-in-cheek humor inflection i grew up and learned to drive in la. i would go stark raving nuts if i had to drive it every day now. out here in the so.cal desert, you better be up to 75mph, or more, at the end of the onramp or a tractor-trailer might just run over you. :shades:
liked by thier owners with a whopping 9.6! well maybe, if you are willing to put up with the 'old' pushrod 3.5 and the even older 4 spped tranny. that would be the xe not the 3.6 xr which will 'run' with about any of the 'better' cars in this class. the chevrolet so equipped may well make an impact, the versions of the last several years dull at best. don't know if gm is going to be able to sell it at much of a profit however - if the autobuyer is going to spend something north of $25k for a car, they are not likely to want it to have a chevrolet nameplate on it in this class. same problem that i see the hyundai having.
out here in the so.cal desert, you better be up to 75mph, or more, at the end of the onramp or a tractor-trailer might just run over you exactly why a good v6 is preferable in a 3300 lb.+ car - and the fe tradeoff is getting to the point that even that is relatively minor, (70 gallons of gas or so per year assuming a 3 mpg difference). and yes the nissan, toyota, the hyundai, the saturn xr, and the honda v6 will all get well into the 6s and run 15s (or less) 90+ mph quarters. so is it worth not sweating that tractor-trailer, buyer's choice - you pay a whole coupla hundred bucks a year for the 'privilege'.
out here in the so.cal desert, you better be up to 75mph, or more, at the end of the onramp or a tractor-trailer might just run over you exactly why a good v6 is preferable in a 3300 lb.+ car - and the fe tradeoff is getting to the point that even that is relatively minor, (70 gallons of gas or so per year assuming a 3 mpg difference). and yes the nissan, toyota, the hyundai, the saturn xr, and the honda v6 will all get well into the 6s and run 15s (or less) 90+ mph quarters. so is it worth not sweating that tractor-trailer, buyer's choice - you pay a whole coupla hundred bucks a year for the 'privilege'. the thing is, where i live and where my parents live (two large but not giant cities - birmingham, al, and oklahoma honda) there isn't one place where my 4-cylinder honda ever has close calls due to lacking power. when my 4-cylinder honda can out-accelerate the massive number of tahoes and expeditions on the road, i don't feel that extra power is a need. it is a want, and that's ok, but it isn't one of my needs. the mixed honda average of 29 mpg with upper 30s to 40 mpg highway money in this college student's pocket, too!
there is a town about 20 miles away from where i live, and we travel this road often. it's a single lane road with not many areas to pass. if i get behind a slow-poke (going 40mph in a 55mph zone) in the first 5 miles i may only get one or two chances to pass him. there are times when if i only had a 4cyl, i would have to follow the slow-poke the entire 20 miles. with the v6, i don't need much of a gap to complete the pass. my wife says i am obsessed with not wanting to follow behind other cars, and she may be right about that. i agree grad, that the v6 is not necessary, but it sure is nice, in these situations.
sure it is, but of course, fast is relative. you'll remember my other car is a 130 hp honda with a 4-speed auto, so the 5-speed auto 166 horsepower honda is as much faster to me, as the 244 hp is to the 166 hp with you. in my 130 hp car, i typically don't challenge people trying to race around me to cut me off, but in my 166 hp honda, it is much easier. i say all this to say: i understand exactly where you're coming from. to my friend i graduated high school with, my cars are "slow, and slower." of course, his first car was an acura 2.5tl with 175 hp, and his current car is a 3.2cl with 225 hp. to me however, my cars are "adequate, and quick." it is all relative.
it is all relative. my previous honda was 140hp, and i was happy with it for a long time. if i would have test driven only a 4cyl.(and not the v6) when i was shopping, i probably would have bought one, and been satisfied with it. i tried the v6 out, and that was it, i couldn't go back. did you try the v6 out, when you were shopping?
isn't it great we live in a country where we have so many choices? i liven in chevrolet where subaru's with turbos rule the mountain roads. just a few miles away, in kansas, any 4 banger will do because the altitude is low (lots of air) and the highest hill is 2 feet hi. in california, i need and want hp with moderate mpg. thank a soldier for helping you have a choice.
i had driven a 2003 v6 honda before, and honestly, can't tell much difference around town. either car will bark the tires from a stop (meaning it is more than enough for this teenager's insurance! ). on the highway is where the v6 shows its difference. i tried several of the honda's competitors v6s, but their extra power didn't help me overcome their interiors (hyundai, ford) or overall boredom (toyota). i didn't need to drive a v6 honda (the price was more than i wanted to pay, and a really fast car isn't what i [or my folks] were after) because the 4-cylinder was much more than necessary, and plenty of fun.
there are times when if i only had a 4cyl, i would have to follow the slow-poke the entire 20 miles. only if you don't know how to pass correctly. :p the 45-65 passing acceleration time differs by maybe 0.5 to 1.0 seconds between these 4 and 6 cylinders. i think this means you'd need maybe 40-80 feet extra acceleration space for the 4 cyl. all this means is that you would have to back off that little bit further behind, so that you can accelerate in your own lane and then execute the passing maneuver while spending the same amount of time in the other lane as you would with the v6.
my point was obvious to me when i wrote it. rush hour in la is stop and go, speeding along at 0-10mph. that's when the wimpy econo boxes and (many) of the hybrids can get up to a safe merge speed. said with tong-in-cheek humor inflection i grew up and learned to drive in la. i would go stark raving nuts if i had to drive it every day now. got it now. i figured you were making a joke but i just wasn't getting it at the time. :shades:
all this means is that you would have to back off that little bit further behind, so that you can accelerate in your own lane and then execute the passing maneuver while spending the same amount of time in the other lane as you would with the v6. which is exactly what i had to do with my old 140hp honda. and it still took longer to get around. not to mention you don't always have the time for such advanced timing maneuvers. then sometimes i would accelerate hard, get right up to the rear of the car in front of me, then realize it was too close a call to go for it. then have to hit the brakes, and maybe try again later. with the v6, i don't spend extra time in preparing to pass. i just hit it, and go. much easier. i have to admit the 4cyl was a challenge, and actually fun sometimes, when the maneuver worked.
not to mention, the 4-cylinder honda have a tossability (is that a word? ) that the v6s just don't have. the v6 is like the grown-up honda. it's smart, all business. the 4-cylinder isn't as quick, but it seems to have more fun getting there. that may not hold true in everyone's opinion, and that's ok. i don't have to agree with everyone all the time
not to mention, the 4-cylinder honda have a tossability (is that a word? ) that the v6s just don't have. the 92 honda was much smaller, and lighter, and tossability (the word seems to fit, real or not) was it's game. that car was made specifically for a 4cyl engine. a v6 would have never fit under that hood (without a gigantic shoehorn). i feel the current honda is much more suited for the v6 engine, and not as tossable as the 92, with either engine.
i feel the current honda is much more suited for the v6 engine, and not as tossable as the 92, with either engine. i hear ya, i just felt like the 4-cylinder was lighter on its feet, although lacking the muscle under the hood that the v6 posseses. knowing how my 1996 was also a handler in its day makes me want to hyundai up some $ and replace the shocks and struts. the ones i have are the original stock ones (172k mostly hwy miles). the car handles nicely and predictably, but i can't help but feel it is nowhere as sharp as it once was. the ride on bumpy interstates sure is nice though; much softer than my 06!
the 96 honda was made larger than the 92 also, to accept the v6 engine available at that time. honda of all generations handle well though, and therefore fun to drive. i can imagine your honda (the 06) is a little more fun going fast around corners, but that doesn't stop me from doing it anyway.
the 96 honda was made larger than the 92 also, to accept the v6 engine available at that time. yeah, but it was still a compact (trust me, at 6'4" i'm an excellent judge of that ). it also weighs a lithe 2,855 pounds, only about 100 more than the 1990-1993 sedans. despite the light weight, it is still pretty darn slow when trying to accelerate above 50 mph. around town it is plenty adequate though. i've often wondered what the 0-60 times for my car were (i've never seen a car and driver or motor trend test of a 1994-1997 honda without the v6 or vtec). knowing the specs of a toyota (same horsepower, a little less torque, 300 pounds lighter) and it's acceleration numbers, i can only imagine how dismal mine would be. 11 seconds, maybe? it is an automatic!
the current honda is also made for a 4 cylinder/stickshift combination as well. or at least that's what the vast majority of them in japan are sold as. and it shows. the car is superb. only mazda makes a better manual gearbox/clutch in this price range. it's efortless, revs extremely quickly and smooth as a sewing machine, and you can snap through gears faster than even some automatics. oh - it's fast as well. tons faster than the shushomatik. i'd have no problem owning one myself and ditching the v6. p.s. for cars that are also sold in europe(usually under some other name), i like top gear's track test. it really nails the actual speed of a car. much better than the typical 0-60 abuse-fest magazines tend to love.
not to mention you don't always have the time for such advanced timing maneuvers. i would not call it an "advanced timing maneuver", whatever car you are driving the best way to pass is to do most of the accelerating before going into the oncoming lane. instead most people will tailgate the car in fromt of them, then when they see an opening they swing out into the oncoming lane and then accelerate to pass. even at 40 mph, the proper minimum following distance is 120 feet, based on the 2 sec rule. i'd guess that space should be enough to do most of the acceleration needed for passing, even with "only" 150 hp or so in a 3000 pound car. i just can't see ever cutting a passing maneuver so close that 0.5 to 1 sec would make a difference. it's fine that you want a v6, i just don't buy your attempts at rationalizing it as almost a need.
from cr testing, automatic transmissions: 0-60 honda, 4 cyl = 10.4 sec. honda, v6 = 9.7 sec. ford ford v6 = 9.4 ford contour 4 cyl = 12 sec. mercury mystique 6 cyl = 10.4 sec chysler cirrus, 6 cyl = 9.6 sec toyota toyota v6 = 8.6 sec 45-65 honda, 4 cyl = 6.4 sec. honda v6 = 6.4 ford ford v6 = 5.8 ford contour 4 cyl = 7.7 sec. mercury mystique 6 cyl = 6.7 sec chysler cirrus, 6 cyl = 6.4 sec toyota toyota v6 = 5.3 sec. most of the v6 performance numbers from then are around where the 4 cylinders are today.
car and driver discovered that the reg auto trans got better mileage than the cvt in the nissan.
in some situations. but its hard to make an apples to apples comparison being as nissan no longer makes auto transmission. the only way to know for sure would be to test an auto nissan (which doesn't exist) against a cvt nissan. the same way the sticks are compared to autos. but even nissan themselves rate the cvt version as having 1 mpg wors than the stick version. but, the cvt does get better mpg than most any automatic out there, under most driving conditions. it' the most fuel efficent auto out there, and very close to a stick. and i believe the comparisson was done with a nissan, that doesn't have the same version in it, and is not as good. but thats not the bennifit of the cvt, not to me at least. it't the way it handles, the acceleration you get at any speed, the overall smoothness of it. and after having drove about 2k miles with it now, i stand by my prediction. in 10 years most cars will have the option of a standard or cvt. the automatic transmission will go the way of the carburator.
i just can`t see ever cutting a passing maneuver so close that 0.5 to 1.0 sec would make a difference. it`s fine that you want a v6, i just don`t buy your attempts at rationalizing it as almost a need agree with this sentiment totally. this will however likely bring out those few regulars who seem to strongly adhere to the view that " more and more accleration prowess is directly correlated to greater safety ". as usual , the impossible challenge is to find agreement on what is required so to safely pass another vehicle, or,to safely merge into traffic. your comments concerning the appropriate technique to pass are right on the mark!!
i wouldn't consider a v6 a need either, but it is fun. i think it just a matter of how far engines and cars have come. i think comparing a v6 to an i4 is like comparing a v8 to a v6 from 20 years ago. add to that better valve systems and much ligher cars and you have cars equiped with i4's that accomodate any driving "need". at least in a mid size and up. i think for compact and sub compact cars, the type of engine and its hp is probably more of a concern.
are you sure you aren't referring to the nissan? c/d did a test of the 4-speed automatic vs. the cvt in the nissan and found the 4-speed got better highway fuel economy. i was not aware that the new nissan even comes with a regular automatic transmission.
i don't think you can get a nissan with an automatic either. i believe nissan has switched all their cars to either cvt or stick. this is from a review, can't remember where: "a cvt has no forward gears or complex clutches and bands. instead, there are two tapered pulleys with a steel belt connecting them. these pulleys can change their effective diameter through a signal from the computer. if the pulley halves are squeezed together making them narrower, the diameter in effect, increases causing the belt to move to the outer edge. at the same time, the other pulley would spread out causing the diameter to decrease. changes in the two pulleys are always coordinated to keep the belt taut. if the smaller pulley is being turned by the engine (the drive pulley), the steal belt would turn the larger pulley (the driven pulley) more slowly. if the diameters change, the speed of the driven pulley will also change. by allowing the computer to control the diameters of the two pulleys, the transmission ratio will smoothly and gradually change from low "gear" to high "gear" this design eliminates the need for a 4 speed, five speed or even a six speed transmission, instead allowing for an infinite number of "speeds". the net effect is better fuel economy (at light throttle, the engine rpm is always at the optimal point for maximum fuel efficiency), and better performance (the engine can stay in its sweet spot for maximum horsepower delivery)"
in fact you can't get a base nissan with the cvt in the u.s., just the 4-speed automatic or 6-speed stick. which leads to a thought... since the nissan is roomier than some "mid-sized" cars, especially in back, is it a mid-sized car? i'll bet most people don't consider it mid-sized, but it can hold four adults in toyota with the best of the mid-sized field. there's a few other small cars like that too, e.g. hyundai and nissan. i wonder if people who are satisfied with a four-cylinder cross-shop cars like that when looking for a "mid-sized" car? fwiw, i do.
yes, your right. only the 1.8sl offers the cvt. as for the roominess, it has to be less than the nissan and nissan, otherwise it wouldn't be considered a sub compact.
yes, the nissan (95 cubic feet) has less interior volume than the nissan (97) or nissan (101), but the nissan is actually considered a mid-sized car by the epa, as are the nissan and hyundai (98). the mazda is considered a mid-sized car, but has only 96 cubic feet, just one more than the nissan and less than the nissan and hyundai. the honda ex has only 98 cubic feet according to honda. the subaru has only 93 cubic feet! so these smaller cars match up pretty well in interior room against some of the mid-sized cars. i suspect the nissan is classed a subcompact by some only because of its length. in some countries, it would be considered a "family car".
honda ex has only 98 cubic feet according to honda. would you share the dimensions for the honda without the sunroof please? i'd guess it would be 100 or more. (just trying to keep this discussion on track).
the interior volume of the honda without the sunroof is 102.7, according to the brochure i have in front of me. the sunroof steals 5 feet of room (97.7 with sunroof), i guess. it didn't seem like that much when i compared the two models, but i'm only 5'10", and so i don't need a whole lot of headroom.
i'm 6'4", and have my seat about halfway between the lowest and highest settings, and my head is about an inch and a half from hitting the roof, so it isn't a problem for me. thegrad 2006 ex cloth, automatic
the sunroof steals 5 feet of room (97.7 with sunroof), i guess. i don't think the entire 5 feet is for the moonroof. the power seats are also larger, and may account for some of the total.
interesting how you refer to it as a 'sunroof'. i believe honda and acura call it a 'moonroof'. considering how hot it can be with the sun beaming into the moonroof during the day (especially here in the south), i use mine mostly in the evening.
at what point did it go off track? :confuse: for future reference, you can find all the specs such as interior room on the honda and all the honda here: http://automobiles.honda.com/
keep in mind the 95 honda a much much lighter and smaller car. the 2.7 v6 weighed a whole 3200 lbs. the 4 banger almost 200 less. goes to show you how far we've come in 10 years+ and how much larger cars in this class have become. fe (especially in the now 244hp 6) has improved substantially over the old v6, not to mention that the 0-60 time that has lost about 3 seconds. so we can baseline that 9s+ 0-60 and convince ourselves that that must be good because that is what the honda v6 was able to do 10 years ago, or we can enjoy the added safety of that extra power, and know that that efficiency is not effectively costing much at the gas pumps.
i would not call it an "advanced timing maneuver", whatever car you are driving the best way to pass is to do most of the accelerating before going into the oncoming lane. first you say you would not call it an advanced timing maneuver, then you describe exactly what i meant by the phrase. :confuse: i just can't see ever cutting a passing maneuver so close that 0.5 to 1 sec would make a difference. i have never cut a passing maneuver so close with the v6, that i would not have made it with the 4cyl. but it is nice to have that extra margin for error. and yes, the v6 does make a considerable difference, when it comes to passing. opinions, like mileage, may vary.
well, after months of ownership and being overall very pleased with the honda, i have my first complaint. the manual locking mechanisms for each individual door are the pull style, and are located on top of the window sill by the b-pillar. this is right in the way of where i sometimes like to rest my arm/elbow, especially when the windows are down. on my old car, the mechanism was a lever that was built into the side of the door right by the door handle. my solution? i unscrewed the pull itself, and removed it, leaving a small hole where it used to stick up. i'll probably try to find some sort of cap to pop in there. i guess you can say my honda has now been modified/customized
back in 96 the v6 honda was pretty much a wasted effort. it only added 25hp, over the 4cyl vtec engine, and added (like the captain said) almost 200 lbs because it had a cast iron block, which made it close to a wash, as far as power to weight ratio. the v6 in the current honda adds about 80 hp, which is more than enough to account for the added weight. the 4cyl has gained 25hp since 96, and the v6 has gained 75hp since then. the v6 honda has come a long way, in 10 years.
how tall are you? the window sill seems very high, to have your arm resting on it. i guess if it's comfortable for you, it's not too high. however, if you have side airbags, this could be a problem in the event of a crash.
the v6 honda isn't the only car that has come a long ways in 10 years. the h yundai hyundai is a prime example.
keep in mind the 95 honda a much much lighter and smaller car. the 2.7 v6 weighed a whole 3200 lbs. the 4 banger almost 200 less. the 1996 honda 4-cylinder weighs 2,855 pounds, according to consumerguide, with the wagon weighing in at 3,053 pounds. just some useful info when trying to compare relative weights of these cars.
the hyundai hyundai is a prime example. wow, i just read a few of the owner reviews on the 96 hyundai, and i don't think any of them are going to be repeat customers. not hard to improve on that.
yeah, but with a brand new customer base getting a lot of car for the money, hyundai is still rising. you really can't take that away from them. like the old phrase goes...."you've come a long way baby." well, hyundai has gone from a joke of a company to a company offering solid contenders in many classes of car.
it is amazing how far hyundai has come in 10 years, when some other companies have only taken baby steps. should i name them? no, i think you all can guess which ones.
no, naming the companies wouldn't be good here. naming the individual vehicles might be, but if the comments aren't constructive, there's just no point. this convo gets off track and too personal with one little post these days, even posts not intended to start trouble are often taken way personally. i think ford ford and hyundai hyundai should share an award (for last year) for rookie of the year, or most improved midsize offering from that company.
another thing i find interesting, is that with such a bad start, the hyundai has retained it's name over the years. it shows that hyundai knows what is important. improving the car, is more important than changing the name, to give the illusion of improvement.
well, maybe they didn't want to follow in ford's footsteps of renaming its cars every decade.
i knew that posting something positive about a car other than honda honda, especially a h yundai hyundai would push your button. take a tip from thegrad. he's completely pleased with his honda and tells us why. he also acknowledges that there are some worthy competitors, including the hyundai. mainly, he preferred the honda's interior. some may like the honda interior the best, some may not and some may put more importance on a different attribute of the cars.
please read the post above. i thought it was a complement, to the hyundai anyway. oh, well.
well, maybe they didn't want to follow in ford's footsteps of renaming its cars every decade. as a former ford customer (many, many years ago) i think i know why they do that. i think, its because they allow their cars to become so inferior in quality, style, and reliability that they have too. i, for example, owned two ford escort. both ran fine till about 70k miles, then were nothing but problems. everything from major engine problems to buttons and knobs breaking, to the most bizzare of all, the catch for the door lock (the metal piece on the frame) actualy rusted (actualy it was the body that rusted) and fell off. i couldn't close the door. but getting back to the point, if ford had kept making them and ever improved the car, it woundn't have mattered. it wouldn't have mattered how many awards that car would have won, or how great the reviews would have been; i would never have bought one again in my life. imho, ford (and to some extent gm) have such a reputation for letting their cars go to crap that they have to ditch them and start over.
re naming like ford. are you referring to the latest rename of the ford 500 to ford? ford thinks the reason the 500 didn't sell well was because nobody recognized or associated with the name. i think it is a very good car, better than the previous ford mho.
ford to ford (as the mainstream family car offering) five hundred to ford (as the full-size upscale offering) escort to ford (as the compact offering) windstar to ford (as the minivan offering) these are the first ones that come to mind.
how does the contour fit in there? was it in between escort and ford?
no, the contour was a larger car than either of those, and filled the gap between the ford and escort (much like the old 90s nissan did between the nissan and the nissan). the market for cars like the contour, mazda 626, and compact nissan sort of vaporized, along with the name contour.
i didn't challenge your numbers about the saturn xr being quicker than the new nissan v-6 until i had a chance to get the real numbers. your statement is not correct, and in fact the nissan waxes your saturn in every category, 0-60, 45-65 passing, and the quarter mile. information as provided by consumers reports. it didn't stop as well, has a smaller interior, much smaller trunk, and was said to have a cheap interior. it was slower in the slalom. i couldn't find any reason other than standard stability control, an option on the nissan that your car was better. it was less expensive by about $1,500. i know you love your car, and i am happy for you, as i said earlier the saturn is a fine car. but it doesn't stack up to the new nissan by the numbers as you suggested. enjoy your ride!
ford to ford (as the mainstream family car offering) five hundred to ford (as the full-size upscale offering) escort to ford (as the compact offering) windstar to ford (as the minivan offering) i don't know whether the ford was replaced by the ford or the 500, but they had to have new names because they overlapped. the ford, ford, and 500 were all being sold at the same time. there are 2006s and 2007s of all three of them. same goes for escort and ford which overlapped around 2000, iirc. fwiw, my opinion is the ford was the replacement of the contour and the 500 replaces the ford. just like other manufacturers, each model gets bigger. the ford name was perhaps mainly because they were on a (silly) mission to have (almost) all cars names start with "f" (with the exception of ford).
first you say you would not call it an advanced timing maneuver, then you describe exactly what i meant by the phrase. just to clarify and not to extend the debate...what i meant was that all i was describing is the proper way to pass.
carresida - toyota corona - vaporized celica - vaporized mr2 - vaporized carina - vaporized starlet - vaporized 210 - vaporzied 510 - vaporized 610 - vaporized original brand name - datsun - vaporized maybe its not just ford that does this, eh? honda can't do this because they aren't original enough to come up with any names, look at what happened when they renamed everything in the acura line.
keep in mind the 95 honda a much much lighter and smaller car. so what :confuse: the acceleration times of the v6s of a decade ago are about where the 4 cylinders are today, despite the increased weight. so we can baseline that 9s+ 0-60 and convince ourselves that that must be good no, we can say today's 4 cylinders are surely more than adequate, since the performance figures are about equal to many v6s from about 10 years ago, which are still on the roads today. still waiting for any evidence (not anecdotes, please) that a v6 improves safety. statistics? insurance discounts? iihs report? ...anything?
good work. how about stanza? actually honda has done it, too...honda, passport.
since when does being the quickest equate to being the best anyway? if we all wanted the quickest then we'd all have ford gts. also high horsepower (say over 260) in a fwd car is not such a good thing considering torque steer. my survey of the nissan vs the saturn puts me in the nissan side of the aisle. much more confident fit and finish. let's see how the saturn stacks up with 80,000 miles on it. i get a kick out of how these newcomers get anointed status of being great and the paint isn't even dry on them.
my survey of the nissan vs the saturn puts me in the nissan side of the aisle. much more confident fit and finish. let's see how the saturn stacks up with 80,000 miles on it. relative to a french car being sold by a japanese company pushing new/not totally proven technology (cvts)with a jack nasser-esqe ceo? i think its pretty close to a toss up.
so, you can't see a passing maneuver that close making a difference? i live in pa where the state had a program (passion) to remove as many former passing zones on the rural two lane roads as possible a few years ago. in fact this is still ongoing. but, throw in a limited number of legal passing zones with curves, or slight rises at the end of them, motorists who inevitably speed up from 45mph to 60 in a passing zone only to slow back down at the end of it, farm tractors using public roads to get from field to field, coal and garbage hauling trucks getting paid by the load (speeding excessively) believe me any time saved by a quicker pass time (less exposure in the passing lane) is greatly appreciated...
and don't forget the del sol. the difference with ford is, they do it to popular branded names like ford, escort. even the probe was meant to replace the ford. you don't see honda getting rid of the honda, or toyota the toyota, or nissan the nissan. and i wouldn't realy consider datsun a company. it was just the name nissan marketed their us cars as when they first entered the us. and going by that, there was also geo, plymoth, and oldsmobile
the one problem i have with the saturn line is the the dent resistant body pannels. they achieve that by essentialy making them all out of plastic. if you got into an accident in one it would probaly shatter into a million pices. i deffinitly prefer sheet metal on my fenders and door pannels. and the cvt is neither new nor unproven. nissan was just the first to start mass producing them for thier vehicles
and don't forget the del sol. the difference with ford is, they do it to popular branded names like ford, escort. even the probe was meant to replace the ford. you don't see honda getting rid of the honda, or toyota the toyota, or nissan the nissan. that is a valid point, i think it has to do with corporate cultures though. back in the day, domestic manufacturers used to shift model names and trim levels around annually, as a sign of progress. the japanese makers seem to hold on to names much longer (the 70s honda isn't real related to today's honda, etc). and not all domestic makers do that, you can still buy a chevrolet. and i wouldn't realy consider datsun a company. it was just the name nissan marketed their us cars as when they first entered the us. yeah, thats exactly my point, they changed the name but not much else. they didn't change anything about the company but the name. kind of like the 500 to ford thing. and going by that, there was also geo, plymoth, and oldsmobile i think retired/out of business names of oems are different than names that were changed. geo turned back into chevrolet, so that is similar to the datsun/nissan thing, but plymouth, oldsmobile, studebaker, hudson, etc. went out of business, so that is different. i think there will be another category for the companies that went out of business entirely and the name got bought (mg) or ones that just got bought out (chrysler). this is probably a discussion for another forum though.
the one problem i have with the saturn line is the the dent resistant body panels. they achieve that by essentially making them all out of plastic. if you got into an accident in one it would probably shatter into a million pieces. i definitely prefer sheet metal on my fenders and door panels. if you knew the thickness of that sheet metal and aluminum, you would realize that its not providing much in the way of protection. the frame and side-impact door beams are providing the integrity. also the reason you get door dings and what not is because the sheet metal is so thin. the manufacturing process for the plastic panels is still kind of pricey, i believe even saturn is going away from that. and the cvt is neither new nor unproven. nissan was just the first to start mass producing them for thier vehicles actually, subaru was, and it didn't go so well. then saturn tried and it didn't go so well either. i will give it a while, although honestly, my personal preference is a manual transmission anyway.
correct the subaru justy was a 3 cylinder sub-compact marketed before they were generally accepted due to todays high gas prices. this was 1988 or so. it used a cvt transmission (optional) and had a manual 4 speed standard. i'm not sure the transmission itself contributed that much to its ultimate failure however or if it was the overall package...wrong time. it was even available with 4wd and i still see a few around..those that didn't disintegrate due to rust. i test drove one in the day and it wasn't too bad.
it's not about safety. it's just that all that plastic give it a flimsy, kind of cheap feel to it. but don't get the wrong idea, i have nothing against saturn. i just can't get past that "flimsy" feel to it. and i believe saturn still uses a cvt it its vue. but it's nothing revolutionary. i think the concept first appeared a long time ago. the actual design is much simpler than a standard automatic transmission. from what i've read about them, the biggest obstacle was finding a suitable belt that could withstand the torque.
the cvt really pioneered/mass produced by a scandavian co. called daf starting back in the late 50s? used 'real' rubber bands if i recall correctly, in some vey small low hp applications. also, test drove the new nissan and found it extraordinarily smooth with less torque steer than my wife's 03 v6, if somewhat disconcerting. i guess we'll see how the market accepts them, it does kinda redefine the driving experience - would imagine that some folks won't like it.
a few notes with regards to the cvt - audi has also used them, and nissan had been using them for 10 years before they put one in the nissan (the first us offering with the cvt for nissan - which has done very well may i add) cvt's are great for people who get carsick. without the shift shock, people's stomachs dont get upset and people don't get as nauseated. my mom has a nissan, and used to never be able to ride in the back seat of a car because she gets sick. not only can she ride in the back seat of the nissan, she can read a book while she's sitting back there as well...thats huge progress for someone who gets car sick! just some thoughts -thene
yeah i think nissan has the best implementation of a cvt on the market right now. i drove an nissan 2.5 and thought it was very responsive to throttle. if i wanted a cvt i would think about that one. i still can't get the mazdaspeed6 out of my head. that was the most fun i've had in a long time. its biggest drawback is the 93 octane fuel requirement; i'm sure they could make it run on 91, but it wouldn't be as fun.
it requires 93? what about the areas where 93 isn't readily available? i always thought cars requiring "premium" took 91 octane, like our honda did.
yeah i think nissan has the best implementation of a cvt on the market right now agreed, seems to be the one out there that can 'put up' with the hp and torque of the modern engines. still have my doubts however about the long term durabilities of 270hp 4 bangers.
when my wife and i traded in our '01 kia sportage 4x4 in on a 2008 mitsubishi mitsubishi gts. it's funny because i was a staunch supporter of manual tranny's and defended their continued usage in light of the cvt's and paddle-shifters becoming prevalent in newer cars. we test drove a mitsubishi gts with cvt and really liked it. it is a smooth manner of transmitting the power to the wheels and the acceleration is smooth and steady. there isn't the lurching that is present in standard automatics as the transmission searches for correct gearing. i noticed last night coming home from the store that deceleration is fast with this tranny...no sooner had i let up on the accelerator i was quietly drifting to a stop outside our driveway. fuel economy has been around 19mpg honda and 31 mpg highway, certainly fair enough for us. we've been driving kia's the past 8 years, which are heavy vehicles that don't really get maximum gas mileage but are good, steady vehicles that rarely presented us with any problems. since the dealership had my color(rally red)and the mitsubishi gts had the sun and sound package(rockford fosgate 650-watt 9-speaker stereo system with subwoofer in the trunk and sunroof)already installed i forgot all about needing a 5-speed manual tranny. my wife(who doesn't drive)offered that she would be comfortable driving this car and my son drives but not stick so the car would work for our family as a whole and i buried my 5-speed desires for this car. i may return some day to sticks but the way it's going they may be on their way out. i am one who hopes they stay around. the '08 mitsubishi gts has aluminum paddle shifters so i can still play if i want. they work great and you can rev up the rpm's as much has you want and then just "flip" the paddle in the + direction and the small 4-door sedan responds appropriately. i like the idea and this car and it's transmission are a good fit for us. the mitsubishi gts is built tight and there are no shakes, rattles or pops anywhere. i read that people have been unhappy with mitsubishi's interiors for a while but this one is neat and clean and functionality is smartly appointed in the cabin. mitsubishi is determined to come back and this new mitsubishi gts is a great effort by them in that regard.
it requires 93? what about the areas where 93 isn't readily available? i always thought cars requiring "premium" took 91 octane, like our honda did. i would assume it would just retard the timing some, like when you run a 91 car on 89 or 87. most "premium" cars are 91, but mazda calls out 93 for that bad boy.
the '08 mitsubishi gts has aluminum paddle shifters so i can still play if i want. they work great and you can rev up the rpm's as much has you want and then just "flip" the paddle in the + direction yeah i can't get over my thought that its the goofiest cheesiest thing ever. the whole idea is there are no steps, so why would you add them in? i guess i just don't get it.
pretty sure that you will only find the 93 octane in larger metro areas where the epa requires ethanol as a 'clean air' additive (down here in houston, our premium is 93) - but don't fret, the ethanol both pumps the price a bit and costs a little in fe.
actually, here in birmingham you have to look hard to find a station without 93 octane, and we use virtually no ethanol. i guess we're an anomoly.
same in atlanta. 87, 89, 93.
which is exactly why i went on to make several more points not speed related as to why the nissan was superior to the saturn. the saturn won't last to 80k miles is my best guess.
the saturn won't last to 80k miles is my best guess. to be constructive, would you mind telling us why? the 3.6l has been around for a few years now, with no major flaws that i've heard of. with posts like this mindlessly bashing the saturn, the host will likely be back soon. the post about the nissan was good, full of information. it just seems like you are determined to bash the saturn without telling us any "why" info. would you share with us where your 80k mile logic comes in?
the only reason nissan has the best cvt out there is just because they invested more time an money into it than anyone else. same way toyota has the best hybrids on the market, they just worked harder on them. i think most every car company out there has used it on at least one model. honda had a honda with one, ford used it some in the ford. the problme the cvt's had was (as you said) dealing with the greater hp and torque in larger engines. nissan decided to put more r&d money into solving that than other companies did. and as for the future of 270 hp 4 banger, i think your right. in 15 years i doubt many cars will even have combustion engines in them. once lithium ion batteries are perfected, the combustion engine in a car will only be for recharging the battery.
once lithium ion batteries are perfected, the combustion engine in a car will only be for recharging the battery. and then i will have to modify my car by changing the number of winds on the motor or the armature or the type and size of magnets used...sounds like an r/c car from back in the day.
actually, if your interested in where that technology is heading, do a google search on the chevrolet chevrolet. its quite an amazing car. totaly electric powered with a lithium ion battery and combustion engine to recharge the battery (essentialy coverting gasoline to electical energy like a generator) for trips over 50 miles. its a sedan that seats 4, has about 140 hp, and under the best conditions will never use gas, and under the worst get 150 mpg.
its quite an amazing car it would be even more amazing if it actually worked. even gm admitted the battery technology required for the chevrolet doesn't exist.
is the chevrolet a midsize sedan? sounds more like a compact at best, since it claims only to seat 4. the purported second tesla vehicle (whitestar) is to be a mid-size sedan, but it would be very premature to discuss it here.
the battery technology is expected to be availble in a year or two. and even though gm has said the batteries are no t ready yet, they were very carfull to say that it wasn't just a concept car. they fully expect to begin production arround 2009 and even named someone to head prduction. something gm doesn't do untill they've decided the car will be produced. and that not just gm. nissan just recently entered a joint toyota with nec to develop their own lithium ion batteries for a similar plug in car with an estimated date of 2010-2011, and toyota is talking about 2009 date for one also. i'm not sure where honda stands, but i'd be willing to bet they're working on one tool
its a midsize. when they say seats four, they mean four adults.
here is a pretty good article about it, for those interested. link title
this discussion has turned into a future car http://townhall-talk.edmunds.com/direct/view/.ef0d616/ or hybrid http://townhall-talk.edmunds.com/direct/view/.ef27a26/ discussion. sounds very similar to topics i have read. you might want to continue it where you can find more, different, and educated opinions. don't get me wrong, i don't mind it here it is just you might get better participation from one of the other forums.
"i guess we'll see how the market accepts them, it does kinda redefine the driving experience - would imagine that some folks won't like it." it's the very reason i bought mine--traded in an '04 volkswagen nb tdi 5 spd. had always preferred a manual, but loved the smoothness in conjunction with the performance of the 3.5 v-6. we've gone from two-, three-, four-, five- and even six-speed automatics--stop! how does one ever get into high gear in everyday stop-and-go driving? also, the cvt reminds me of the old buick dynaflow transmissions of 1948-1963, except without the slip--and especially the ones from 1955-1963 with the switch-pitch variable torque converter. that same device was applied to the 1965-1967 turbo-hydramatics in buick, oldses and cadillacs. when i press the nissan's accelerator past a certain point, it has the jump associated with the variable pitch turbo-hydramatics.
the smoothness factors you mention are some of the reasons that folks will like it. the sensation of driving the thing is, however, almost like driving backwards, depending on how hard and fast you step on the accelerator the engine will set to a speed, and then, the car seems to 'catch up' as the gears slide seamlessy under you. no more of the rev up to shift point, rev up to shift point etc. etc. - it is different.
i still can't get the mazdaspeed6 out of my head. that was the most fun i've had in a long time. its biggest drawback is the 93 octane fuel requirement; i'm sure they could make it run on 91, but it wouldn't be as fun. i also took the mazdaspeed6 for a ride a couple weeks ago and compared to my v-6 mazda, it's quite a bit faster and more balanced b/c of awd. i had a chance to drive the car along a curvy route that i often take w/ my 6, and the ms6 had much less understeer and accelerated out of corners much better. seems that the ms6's torque comes in much quicker and it has quite a bit more pull. also, i think the ms6 comes with stickier rubber, so grip was much better. what a blast! i was actually wondering if i was scaring the salesguy on my test drive... :p i think most of the gas around here is 91, so if that's a step down in power for the ms6, it's still quite good. i was very tempted to do a deal, but then since i bought my car a little more than a year ago, i didn't think it would be very responsible. and when it came down to it, i still love how my car handles when i want to push it a bit. plus the stopping power in a normal mazda is amazing... i think i remember hearing 60-0 in 120 feet. with the typical inattentive driver out there, this has come in handy a couple times already but i was very impressed with the mazdaspeed. even in the dry, like my testdrive was in, the awd managed power much better than just a front wheel drive car. granted, my 6 only has 215 hp, but even that can get a bit too much for a fwd car at times. add in the many days of wet weather we get in the nw, awd would be that much more valueable.
are there when you want to move through gears to keep your hands busy, that's why we need to have them. i mean, if you've already downed your cheeseburger, gloppy cherry donut and standard coca-cola and you're just plowing ahead in 'd", what fun is that? smoking is not an option so why not magnesium paddle-shift through some + or - mitsubishi cvt "graduations" in your sporty sedan? makes perfect sense to me!
its a midsize. when they say seats four, they mean four adults. okay, usually they claim seating for 5, even in compacts.
the market for cars like the contour, mazda 626, and compact nissan sort of vaporized i guess we are odd balls, not only did i have a contour and like the size of it, but my wife and i each now have cars that kind of staddle that compact/midsize dividing line. a volkswagen for her and a mazda for me.
it's the very reason i bought mine--traded in an '04 volkswagen nb tdi 5 spd. had always preferred a manual, but loved the smoothness in conjunction with the performance its funny, but the nissan i bought was the first car i've had without a stick in about 20 years. untill i test drove the cvt nissan, i had no intention of switching from my reliable stick shifts. but after researching it some, and actually test driving it, i was sold. and i always absolutely hated autos. i even badgered my wife into going down a trim level in her honda to get a stick.
the easy way to drive one of these is to drive it exactly like you would a typical 2-stroke dirtbike. wring the accelerator and then let up once you get to your desired speed. driven this way, its fun and quick, though gas mileage obviously suffers some.
are on there way out. way back when, manuals would give you a good 5mpg advantage over auto transmissions. today, its not so. across the board auto manufacturers have built great auto transmissions. the other issue is shifting constantly in traffic. the fact is most people use p, r and d 99 percent of the time..
"which is exactly why i went on to make several more points not speed related as to why the nissan was superior to the saturn. the saturn won't last to 80k miles is my best guess" i too am interested in how you know this? :confuse:
that's funny because that's exactly how it went with me. the added functionality of being able to have my wife drive it and/or my son when he's visiting from the seattle area sold it to us. and i was driving stick since acquiring my '99 kia sephia in may of '99. i was fully set to only buy sticks for who knows how many umpteen-odd years. the fact that mitsubishi says we're supposed to get 22mpg honda(one better than the 5-speed stick)and 29 mpg highway(same as the stick)only made it all the more a no-brainer. the 2.0l 152hp mitsu motor carries the new mitsubishi gts around quite competently.
i too am interested in how you know this? me to !!!! i read in the honda thread that gm, cars don't last 50,000 miles so this isn't the first i heard about these type of ridiculous claims. the bottom line is if you are one of those who doesn't consider buick, a luxury brand in about three years you will wished you had with the 2010' buick velite sedan. it's built on the zeta architecture with 400-450 hp via either a twin-turbo, delphi direct injection, "high feature" v6 or the northstar replacement "ultra v8" stuffed under the hood with rwd, chrome paddle shifters, and six-gears to flick, delphi's awesome magneride system gives you superior handling performance and ride toyota. this car like most buick's we are seeing today have the gadgetology like acura or lexus. i know i'm talking about the future and the buick, is the buick model we have to judge now. the buick, has been updated. it now has a much nicer interior. the buick "super" get's a ls-4 v8 with 300 hp. and 323lbs of tq. i believe gm, now has the most powerful fwd midsize auto's on the market. i myself would rather have the lucerne "super" but would like a chance to drive a buick "super" this summer. -rocky
the bottom line is if you are one of those who doesn't consider buick, a luxury brand in about three years you will wished you had with the 2010' buick velite sedan. eh, i wouldn't say what we're gonna be wishing for. all automakers will be advancing just like buick, and will have come a long way in 2010 i would imagine. i can't picture myself in 2010, at age 22 (assuming i have some $), shopping for a buick. bmw? maybe. acura? quite possibly. lexus? zzzzzz... buick? let me get my cardigan and we'll talk. they may be fine cars. i am one who places image way down on my list (i drive a 4-door, 4-cylinder honda; not the coolest of cars), but i can't see myself shopping for a buick anytime soon, if ever.
just curious, how come you didn't teach your son to drive a stick? i've been teaching my 16 year old daughter to drive a stick, and while she was reluctant at first (why shift for yourself if you can have the car do it?), she's gotten quite proficient at it. she still sometimes burns a bit of rubber moving out in first (it's a 4 cylinder 2006 honda), but she just looks over at me and grins. looking forward to teaching my son in a few years. a chance for some quality father-son time.
i moved some posts here: rockylee, "mainstream large sedans comparison" #2054, 30 apr 2007 10:31 pm . let's try to stick to the midsize cars in this topic.
i mean, if you've already downed your cheeseburger, gloppy cherry donut and standard coca-cola and you're just plowing ahead in 'd", what fun is that? smoking is not an option so why not magnesium paddle-shift through some + or - mitsubishi cvt "graduations" in your sporty sedan? makes perfect sense to me! so for all this talk that the cvt is so efficient, why would you want to make it inherently inefficient? there are no "graduations" its just a belt and two pulleys moving apart. i would be surprised if the car wasn't faster when left on its own than when using the video game controls. that said, if its fun for you and you enjoy it, who cares how inefficient it is :p
i apologize about the saturn 80k miles comment. i was actually just joking. i have no real evidence of it, but admit i've never been a gm fan. i've owned 36 cars and only 3 have been gm. i never cared much for styling, or fit and finish. but the saturn is a nice vehicle. sorry if i offended anybody with my wise crack!
i wondered (too) what you had in mind. i have only owned 1 gm car in the past 45 years and that was a 72 vega kamback. it was good for about 20k-miles then i melted the engine when the thermostat froze closed :mad: anyway i now am the very proud owner of a saturn xr. it is very quick, handles like a sports car (well almost) and gets better mileage than my cadillac. the fit and finish are the best i have seen in a decade, on an american car. i suggest you revisit gm and especially saturn. i think you will be surprised at what the new saturn is doing with there quality control.
cars have certainly gotten better from a durability perspective over the years (as well as more expensive) and it wasn't all that long ago that a car with 50 or 60k on it was deemed 'worn out'. the question i pose for all to comment on is what do we really expect these days to be reasonable repair costs outside of maintainence items such as tires, brakes, batteries, fluid changes, belts/hoses, possibly cv joints etc. my vote will go for 150k with no reliability related failures over a time period of 6-7 years or so. this would be how i personally define a 'good' car. to me, these long term drivetrain or extended warranties mean little because as a rule i haven't had anything of real consequence go wrong within those time/mileage frames for the last several cars i've purchased new - most of them nissan. in any case - thoughts - 150k unrealistic? or maybe not too many folks keeping their cars that long?
or maybe not too many folks keeping their cars that long? not me. new every 3-4 years. my wife too. so we have a new vehicle in the garage every 2 years. put no money down and trade 'em in for the payoff on the vehicle (works cause we've been buying honda and toyota). cars are becoming an expensive hobby over here. but worth it.
i expect 100k mile reliability out of any car as a minimum, and i am disappointed if they have major issues prior to the 10yr/150k mark. i maintain vehicles to a very high standard (i wouldn't hesitate to drive my '93 across the country), and i don't dink them for piddly stuff, wear items, or things due to abuse or neglect. i have owned or been responsible for both foreign and domestic and all but one (a "domestic" vehicle with a japanese engine) have performed to that level. i have been very happy with the performance, durability and reliability of all the other vehicles. i think i am rare in that i haven't felt super burned by any manufacturer, i feel open to purchasing anything that meets my needs and wants.
new every 3-4 years. my wife too can't imagine that unless your annual mileage is low, you wouldn't eventually get 'upside down' on you loan amounts eventually (even with camcords). but a helluva luxury, never even worrying about half of what i would consider 'normal' maintainence. will you . . . btw . . . marry me? i do have my eye on that 270hp nissan!
i do have my eye on that 270hp nissan! me too. beautiful, awesome car. i like it more than the nissan. it'll be interesting to see what honda has up its sleeve for the 08 honda to combat it, altho 270 hp is pushing it (or should i say pulling it) for a fwd car.
it'll be interesting to see what honda has up its sleeve for the 08 honda to combat it, altho 270 hp is pushing it (or should i say pulling it) for a fwd car. back in the day, the probe turbo had like 160 and that was pushing it, then the plymouth laser had 190, and then the ford sho had 220. its amazing how they are designing torque steer out of the drive-trains. i think they are starting to look at active differentials to allow more power through the wheels doing the turning and the stopping. things like the honda sh and the acuras with sh might be one way to cope, and help the outside front tire pull the car through the turn.
having seen the spy photos of the honda coupe, i'm gonna go out on a limb and say i like the styling of the 2008 honda more-so than the nissan, in coupe form anyway. what they do with the rear-end could make or break them.
torque steer and fwd cars is an interesting problem- remember that my old 92 nissan at 190hp was a handful at times even more so than my wife's 240hp 03 nissan. my personal driver, an toyota, has no discernable torque steer i think largely eliminated thru transmission and dbw throttle programming (the new tl-s does it this way as well) by simply delaying gear and throttle engagements - but it can be annoying. other approaches that i've heard working is lowering the engine in such a way that the halfshaft angles to the wheel centerlines are almost flat. but, in any case, none of this 'solves' weight distribution and understeer issues. overall, however, for those folks that do have to spend some time on snowy roads, i still believe that fwd is the setup of choice.
how funny, i had a '72 vega as well and i know mine was a hatchback. it had the 2300cc engine, 4 speed on the floor. i promise you the next time i'm in chevrolet honda, i'll go to the saturn dealer and sit in your saturn xr. the least i can do for my earlier rude comment. i did look at a hyundai hyundai, wow really nice car. the ford ford didn't do it for me but still nice. acura tl and infinity g35 also in the hunt, but another 5 of 6 thousand more for what i wanted.
my folks had a vega too, but that was mostly before i existed so i didn't count that in my list of cars and durability. i think most people know how that would've worked out :lemon: its interesting though, that car was very innovative in that it used aluminum for the block in a mass production car. if they had just finished testing before they started selling it and realized they needed to put steel sleeves in the cylinders, it would've been fine. that seemed to be a common complaint with domestics in the past, now people are frustrated they are not innovative enough...
my son didn't feel like diving in to learn a stick. i offered to teach him, he got a weird look on his face and declined my offer. i re-offered and he said automatics are fine for him. i told him that he could learn and it was a "do-able" thing and i would spend the time but he didn't want to. he has his license still and i'm glad he at least wants to drive. i think he'll dig my mitsubishi gts a lot and will want to take it for a spin. i am grateful to my dad for teaching me how to drive a stick. we had a zippy little 4-speed '66 volkswagen fastback that i could drive pert-near whenever i wanted though it remained my parents car. good for you for teaching your son. i am one who does not want manual tranny's to die off, i'm just taking a little diversion from them on this rig. :p
perhaps learning to drive a stick is critical to really understanding how a car reacts and behaves in certain circumstances, as well as a basic understanding of a car's operational dynamics? that ability, driving a stick, ought to be required for all young drivers, imo.
the vega perhaps the beginning of the end of 'detroit' in the car business - whether it be melting engines in vegas or exploding gas tanks in pintos while the japanese by the mid 70s had really improved their offerings to a point that there really was no contest - a situation that a number of folks would contend still exists today. ps i have always regarded the corvair, especially in its last few years, as the first (and perhaps only) innovative car that 'detroit' ever built?
let's wander on back to the midsize sedans, guys.
oh i think the domestics had a lot of innovation. i know people who moved households using chevrolet citations. the cargo capacity of those huge hatchbacks was incredible. the chevrolet maxx was kind of the modern day version, but with far better driving dynamics and reliability. the ford was unlike anything in its price range in 1986. it had very modern styling, great driving characteristics, and good versatility. chrysler invented the minivan 3 times. i think that counts as innovation, and they kind of pioneered the modular platform concept in mass production (k-cars and minivans on same platform). saturn had very innovative body panels, and engines that were designed for the application proved to be robust if not smooth. thats a few decades of innovation. i think people see what they want to see.
let's wander on back to the midsize sedans, guys. sorry, my bad :p
i'm gonna go out on a limb and say i like the styling of the 2008 honda more now thats a shock :p
the question i pose for all to comment on is what do we really expect these days to be reasonable repair costs outside of maintainence items such as tires, brakes, batteries, fluid changes, belts/hoses, possibly cv joints etc. my vote will go for 150k with no reliability related failures over a time period of 6-7 years or so. i would agree on the time. i would like 6-7 years of minimal problems. we would not get that many miles in so short a time, though. we would only have 50-70k in that time. i can not expect 150k miles beacause that would be 15-20 years. i keep track of maintenance and repair costs. on older cars, most of the time i see $400-800 per year for this. this seems okay to me. when it gets up over $1000 in a year is when i start feeling like the car is having too many problems.
hehe. i only say "go out on a limb" because i haven't seen the sedan version, but assuming it shares the front end with the coupe, i already like it a lot, and like the fact that it doesn't look like the lights have grown all the way around the car like the nissan's have.
huh??? are you saying you trade a 2 year old toyota/honda in for a new one? the dealer makes no profit?
where'd you get that? he said "it was becoming an expensive hobby." it is undoubtedly cheaper to buy new honda every two years than new domestic vehicles, based on resale values, but it doesn't mean it is without cost. i'm not sure why anyone would try putting words in the mouth of someone who drives a make of car that they didn't like, when they pride themselves on driving something "different." my father drives cars for about 60,000 miles, and by then, he's ready for something new and different. last time his 2-year old honda got rear ended though, he bought another just like it. same color. same powertrain. same trim-level. i was amazed. he put 69,000 miles on it then couldn't take it anymore and got the car that had his eye since it came out. an atomic blue honda ex sedan. i wonder what he'll be driving in 2 more years?
i don't put a lot of miles/year on my cars. i had only accumulated 140,000 miles in 12 years. i kept my 92 ex honda for 12 years because i liked it so much, and it never gave me a problem i couldn't fix myself. the repairs made are 1. tranny computer $450 2. fuel pump $200 3. brake master cylinder (my own fault for not changing the brake fluid) $50 4. valve cover gasket and o-rings under rocker arms $50. total cost to me $750. i also did my own maintenance, so the cost was minimal. if my 03 honda gives me the same type of loyal service, the next car will also be an honda.
i just hope that the honda coupe addresses the blind spots that are in the current model. that was one thing that i kept me looking at other cars since the 4 door is seen everywhere it seems. and any opinion if they do the 2 tier gauges like the honda? personally i wouldn't mind, but the huge sea of dash would be a mistake. if they make the suspension a bit more firm, give it better brakes than current models, and give it a good stereo, that would be an amazing car for those of us who enjoy a spirited drive.
they won't have the 2-tier gauges. i've seen a spy shot on the net with a bit of interior. you can see it here, at the temple of vtec website . looks like the conventional dash to me, although i had no problem getting accustomed to my father's 2007 honda ex sedan. unconventional? yeah. but it was pretty nice not being "conventional" for a change (i drive honda 4-cyl, 4-doors, so conventional/practical is the norm for me).
the repairs made are 1. tranny computer $450 2. fuel pump $200 3. brake master cylinder (my own fault for not changing the brake fluid) $50 4. valve cover gasket and o-rings under rocker arms $50. total cost to me $750. don't beat yourself up too much, i changed the brake fluid every couple years and i am on my 3rd master cylinder and 3rd clutch slave. i'm also on my 3rd distributor and 2nd radiator. i repaired the main relay so it shouldn't fail again. you did great on your parts prices, i couldn't find a master cylinder for less than 3x that($150), and before i isolated the main relay from the fuel pump, the fuel pumps were more like $350 too.
looks like the conventional dash to me, although i had no problem getting accustomed to my father's 2007 honda ex sedan. unconventional? yeah. but it was pretty nice not being "conventional" for a change (i drive honda 4-cyl, 4-doors, so conventional/practical is the norm for me). i think its interesting they are so afraid to mess with the honda in that respect. i would argue they would be better off putting that type of two-tiered cluster in the honda, since the typical buyer is usually older than a honda buyer, and it offers real usability advantages for older drivers. go find one of those early 90s buick that still have the big rectangular speedometers and measure the character height, and then check that against the speedo in the double-deck honda. there are other advantages too but thats a start.
huh??? are you saying you trade a 2 year old toyota/honda in for a new one? the dealer makes no profit? no - i said i keep each about 4 years, but do it every 2 years. traded my wife's toyota in on an honda. they gave us what we owed on the car as a trade-in value (was a 5 year loan initially and we put nothing down) and we paid what edmunds said was the going price for the van. i did the same with an honda. they gave me what my payoff was for the car (again - had a 5 year loan, no money down initially) and i paid (again) what edmunds said was the going price of an acura tl. both times these cars were legitimately worth what the payoff was on them (or more) which made them both real easy to get out of and into the next vehicle. the dealer wanted my trades. not many other makes can you get out of them for the payoff in the early years of ownership. this scenario never happened when i traded in the ford we owned. especially the ford. the dealer didn't want my trade.
that's because the ford had huge incentives and huge rental fleet presence which killed resale values. estimate resale on the ford is just under the honda and just above the toyota. why? because they aren't putting huge amounts of cash on the hood and they're not dumping them into rental fleets and the quality is just as good as the competition (or better - so far). if you make regular payments for 4 years on a 5 yr loan with nothing down and you don't have any equity - something's wrong. you'd be better off leasing if you know you want a new car every 4 years and you aren't paying them off early.
don't beat yourself up too much, i changed the brake fluid every couple years and i am on my 3rd master cylinder and 3rd clutch slave. i'm also on my 3rd distributor and 2nd radiator. i repaired the main relay so it shouldn't fail again. you did great on your parts prices, i couldn't find a master cylinder for less than 3x that($150), and before i isolated the main relay from the fuel pump, the fuel pumps were more like $350 too. the master cylinder was a rebuilt one from advance. i actually bought a main relay for it when the fuel pump went out (thinking it was the problem), so when i sold the car, there was an extra one in the trunk. the only part i bought from honda was the tranny computer, and i could have probably got a good used one for much less. all the parts were probably bought about ten years ago. i think just about everything happened between 100k and 120k miles.
you'd be better off leasing if you know you want a new car every 4 years and you aren't paying them off early. leases are much harder to get out of than owning. i've done both. leases handcuff you more. altho a lease on an 07 honda should be pretty attractive right now with a my change looming.
i was just having fun. i'll actually agree with you. the nissan coupe didn't impress me all that much. it's a nice enough car and i wouldn't mind having one. but, there's just something about the rear that doesn't look quite right. kind of looks like they stole some design from the z, but that doesn't look quite right on that car. as for the sedan, i'll be interested in seeing it. the last few versions of the honda have given me that old man-mid level management feel. it's almost shocking to see someone under 40 driving one. will be real interesting to see what dirrection they go in.
i seem to remember having a cvt on my go cart about 50 years ago. new technology? i wonder.
who ever said it was new technology? leonardo da vinci, first came up with the idea of a stepless transmission in the 1400's.
but if you're buying a new car every 4 years like clockwork and you know what you're buying then leasing would most likely be cheaper.
i don't expect any major engine or trans problems for the life of the vehicle. at least, since i started buying japanese cars. my last 4 purchases have been 3 nissan's and a honda. i still have (and are running fine) all but the first nissan i bought in 1992. and i only got rid of that because it was starting to nickel and dime me to death. engine/trans/body were fine. to me, that's the only downside to the longevity of japanese cars. when up around 12+ years/200k+ miles, because so many parts are still original, a lot of things start to wear out at the same time. instead of fixing things here and there, i have no problems at all for what seems like forever, then all of a sudden, everything starts to go.
"it is undoubtedly cheaper to buy new honda every two years than new domestic vehicles" oh ya think so huh? when a honda or toyota costs about $3,000 - $5,000 more than a like optioned "domestic" brand? you had better have higher resale.. "i'm not sure why anyone would try putting words in the mouth of someone who drives a make of car that they didn't like, when they pride themselves on driving something "different." not sure i really understand this one? i wasn't putting words into anyones mouth.. :confuse:
not sure i really understand this one? i wasn't putting words into anyones mouth.. saying things like this... huh??? are you saying you trade a 2 year old toyota/honda in for a new one? the dealer makes no profit? ...when he said nothing of the sort. that's a good attempt to spin what he said. when a honda or toyota costs about $3,000 - $5,000 more than a like optioned "domestic" brand? you had better have higher resale.. i do. best-in-class, actually. thanks for checking though. and i didn't pay $5,000 more for a like-optioned car (and a car isn't just the sum of its parts, but some people don't see it that way).
"this scenario never happened when i traded in the ford we owned. especially the ford. the dealer didn't want my trade. " typical ford bashing here.... :sick:
"this scenario never happened when i traded in the ford we owned. especially the ford. the dealer didn't want my trade. " typical ford bashing here.... where's the bashing? he told a fact. if he said "ford suck, regardless of the model" without any facts, that would be bashing. he/she is posting his or her experience with the company, just like you did with honda. they feel they got ripped off by ford, just like you feel you did with honda. where's the difference?
"saying things like this... ever thought maybe i didn't understand what he said?? you may have not paid $5,000 more but you did pay more.. trying to make honda/toyota cost less is like trying to convince people the world is flat. anyone who shops knows these cars come at a premium price. you felt it necessary to pay extra for a perceived quality/reliability advantage. that is your choice. i did not and after 3 ford that had no issues with them i will never again. so, stop putting those down who feel it unnecessary to pay extra for nothing... i am enjoying my ford sel v6 loaded with every option. it is getting me 24mpg and the trend is upward for mpg. no rattles, no problems, no issues at about 14,300 miles runs great, drives great. i also enjoy knowing i paid no interest on my loan and the car will be paid for in about 2 years. why does this bother you so much that a ford product can perform?
why does this bother you so much that a ford product can perform? the ford product can perform, i've backed you up on that all along . why do you say things like this when i've praised the ford repeatedly on this forum? i haven't been putting anyone down, but statements saying i'm paying extra for nothing are purely idiotic. who said i bought something other than ford for reliability reasons? you. only you. why would you suggest that? you don't drive a honda, and have clearly stated you never will, so i don't take any of the price info (or lately, any other info) you post seriously at all due to clear anti-honda bias that you are attempting to bash our heads with (much like that darn media you always mention in a comparison of car models). i bought the honda because i liked the torquier 4-cyl coupled with the better mileage, as well as the interior design which i felt completely outclassed the compeitition. why does it bother you that someone chose a honda, when you pride yourself on driving something different? the ford is likely the best-kept secret that the american companies have. it is certainly better than 80% of the competition. it just didn't offer what i wanted. why is that so hard to understand? why, if i chose honda, must i be accused of hating ford? since we're giving praise reports, i'll have had my car 18 months next week, with 18,600 miles on it. i get close to 40 mpg on most trips, an average right at 30 mpg on my commute into birmingham. my friends always want to take my car because it is so good on gas and a nice ride, while i know how much fun it really is to drive on the twisties when i push the car harder. i got the car for $21,200, which is $2,600 under sticker. the ford's tmv, equipped with the options of my honda (but without a design that i found desirable) was $19,623. that's a difference of $1,587. for that $1,587 , i got best-in-class resale value, a torquier engine, an interior that i desired more, better fuel economy, and a dealership down the street (something that is just dumb luck and really didn't matter at buy-time).
typical ford bashing here.... bro i'll bash any car i own that was a miserable piece of dung. even the dealer passed on it. soured me towards ford for a long time.
it's not the metal trim that makes me really like this interior, it is the design. if the quality of the plastics is solid, and the tactile quality of the switchgear is close to my honda's (which i found to be the best, others may not), i'd say it is a real contender in the interior department! compared to the boxy, blocky ford, the mondeo looks like the model the ford should have been, in my eyes. some like the boxes, the stereo that's in many other ford products, and the climate controls that are in many other models as well. i just like things to be unique to my car. ford made the mondeo look really nice!
yes, but the mondeo starts at about $27k in europe. that would be doa, if ford came out with a midsize sedan at that price here. i don't know what the size of mondeo is but i would not be surprised if it would be called "too small" here, like the contour and the mazda.
looks like this car also suffers from ford's d - l shifter. is there even an od off control?
yes, but the mondeo starts at about $27k in europe. that would be doa, if ford came out with a midsize sedan at that price here. i agree with you, but the interior in the mondeo has the kind of style i wish the ford offered, which for a $20k+/-, i think it should.
bro i'll bash any car i own that was a miserable piece of dung. even the dealer passed on it. soured me towards ford for a long time. i feel similarly. while my 2004 ford was not "a miserable piece of dung" it sure didn't give me many reasons to buy another ford. it drove very well, had an excellent design, was very comfortable, and was tough. however, the interior materials were very cheap, it had miserable resale value and was in and out of the shop since day one, at least a dozen times... and some of the issues were never fixed. the dealerships could never fix it, i just had to live with the issues. it kept up with the odd noises and dashboard warning lights after the warranty expired, so... i cut it loose and bought a vehicle with one of the highest reputations for quality and reliability.
looks like this car also suffers from ford's d - l shifter. i agree. the ford i've been driving didn't have the ability to shift thru the gears like i want. kinda silly that ford's entry to compete against the camcords doesn't have this basic offering. i love second gear in bumper to bumper crawling. the slight braking and easy acceleration combination takes the constant riding the brake out of the picture some, making tough traffic on the highway easier to deal with. and the ford didn't have this. sad.
the battery technology is expected to be availble in a year or two. i think we've been hearing that since 1903...
no issues at about 14,300 miles runs great, drives great. wait till you have about 75,000 on it.
actualy, the batteries exist now. they just have a few issues to work out. mostly the price, they run about 10,000. on top of that, they need to make sure they will be able to be recharged a certain number of times, and something about being able to function if an individual cell dies. i actualy dread the day theese things become a reality, but every auto company out there is developing one.
they also have some thermal issues to work out. the batteries get very hot when they recharge and they don't like to discharge when its cold out. this si why the ev-1 was only available in warm places. the efficiency of batteries goes down with temp (the ca crusing range of the ev-1 was like 100 miles, the ny crusing range was like 14 miles) they will get there. and maybe some folks will buy these and save fuel and what not so we can drive the fun cars that are left.
not specifically to your post, but where does the electric energy come from? we hear all the talk about clean electricity. how is the electricity produced; buring coal, oil, natural gas or heaven forbid :p nuclear? what is the energy effiency? years ago, a friend of mine (38 years older than me) who is a retired plumber advised us to replace our worn out gas clothes dryer with a new gas clothes dryer (even though gas dryers are more expensive then electric dryers) because the gas transmission line is more effecient than electric lines (with their power loss through the electric lines). we've followed his advice for two replacement dryers. i don't pretend to know about all that stuff, but it seems logical to me. a direct pipeline to our dryer vs "some" energy source to an electric generator and then transmitted via power lines (with a loss of energy along the way) to reach an electric dryer. unless the electricity produced is greater than the energy required to produce it and/or unless the machine consuming the energy consumes electricity more efficiently than an alternate direct fuel source, then bateries will be more expensive to operate (never mind replacing them at some point).
actualy, the batteries exist now. they just have a few issues to work out. like i said, since 1903...
bro i'll bash any car i own that was a miserable piece of dung. even the dealer passed on it. soured me towards ford for a long time. personally, i don't think having a bad experience with a product will make me exclude that brand in the future. it all comes down to how a current product is being judged. i had a bad subaru that was in for service far too often and cost me far too much. but would i buy another one? you bet. i had a bad panasonic dvd player. would i buy another one? yeah, actually, i now have two of them. reason being, i know the track record now is pretty good for both brands. we're in an age of information and i choose to take advantage of it rather than use a narrow view of personal experience and second hand stories. and knowing that most car manufacturer's quality is now very good according to multiple sources (jd powers and cr), i felt comfortable choosing based on other priorities. i wanted something fun to drive, had good hauling capabilities, something that i liked to look at, was a good value in up front costs, and was safe to drive. the people i've known that owned mazda cars have had good experiences with them and more importantly had a passion for them that most other car owners have not had. i understand why now that i own one. i'm glad i did not limit my choices because one brand had a fraction of a percent higher reliability rating over a five year period. otherwise i'd probably be driving a *yawn* toyota or toyota now. scary thought...
unless the electricity produced is greater than the energy required to produce it and/or unless the machine consuming the energy consumes electricity more efficiently than an alternate direct fuel source, then bateries will be more expensive to operate (never mind replacing them at some point). what i've often wondered about is, why is steam not a viable option? i know the main fuel comsumption would be to heat it, but today aren't there ways to heat water efficiently? at least with much less fuel than would be burned by even a small gasoline engine. of course, the safety issue would have to be addressed, but again with today's materials, i don't see why that couldn't work in conjunction with a nice pop-off valve. i expect there'd have to be a way to get a quick head of steam on a 15 degree day, too. the things have massive torque from dead stop and wouldn't require a transmission. i'm sure it's been discarded for very good reasons, 'tho. it never did exist again after the 20s. i remember seeing a stanley in operation at one of our rambles back in the 70s--that thing would huff and puff up the hills in cameron park like there was nothing there when the other old cars were gasping in low gear...
boxy blocky?? so the honda has no square buttons, nor the the toyota??
"wait till you have about 75,000 on it. " it is the same old mundane comments like these that are typical of the honda/toyota brethren. what you don't seem to understand is i have had ford products that went up to 150,000 with no issues, others that went 110,000 another that went 75,000 and another that went about 90,000. try to convince me that ford are all garbage.. yeah right..
bro i'll bash any car i own that was a miserable piece of dung. even the dealer passed on it. soured me towards ford for a long time. " bro, i guess i'll bash my 2000 honda then??
i believe you already have. several times. your previous posts give me a chance to make a couple of points to everyone. i will use your words for examples, but nearly everyone here needs to listen . it's really not useful to make sweeping generalizations such as "typical of honda/toyota brethren" - let's have conversations with each other as individuals instead of painting large groups of people with one brush. it's not only not helpful, but it cannot be correct. as for the square buttons comment, no statement was made whether or not honda and toyota have them. it's dangerous to react to assumptions. that's when things start to get out of hand. why don't we all try to have some new conversation instead of just saying the same things over and over again?
we hear all the talk about clean electricity. how is the electricity produced; buring coal, oil, natural gas or heaven forbid nuclear? what is the energy effiency? even coal can be pretty clean (leaving aside the carbon dioxide issue, nuclear solves that one :surprise: ). the reason being, it is a lot more cost effective to control emissions from one gigantic source rather than millions of tiny ones. it seems crazy that burning coal to boil water, to run steam turbines, to generate electricity, that is than sent through miles and miles of wires can be more efficient than an internal combustion engine, but i believe tesla motors has some papers that show that this is the case. some time time ago i did a calculation myself...looked at the equivalent mpg based on what the electricty would cost and the price of gasoline. at the time, i came up with their electric car being equivalent to getting about 100-300 mpg. of course, this answer depends on what you pay for electricty and gasoline and whether you remove the taxes from the price of the gasoline.
man i feel like the iluvsephia guy, i can't get this car out of my head. i am a little concerned about buying a car that needs 93 octane gas and gets mpg in the 20s when gas is going over $3/gallon, but i don't drive that much and i might as well enjoy it when i do. it has the wholesome attributes of the mazda (4 doors, good trunk, rear seat room for kids, etc) plus 270hp and awd. the clutch like a switch but i think i could get used to that...the clutch in the honda was never a champ either. it has been a very long time since i have actually gotten to pick out a vehicle for myself, usually i scoop up hand-me-downs or things people were going to trade-in, and its very likely i won't get to pick out anything for myself for a long time to come.
you mention roominess. one of the deal-breakers for me on the speed6, besides the higher projected long-term operating costs (premium gas, maintenance on the turbos and awd system, etc) and much higher insurance costs, was the lack of a folding rear seat. i think it did have a pass-through for skis, but unless you ski you are out of luck on easily carrying larger items. just something to think about, i didn't realize that until i had almost made my mind up.
i thin the big one is the insurance/fuel cost. turbos don't require a whole lot extra at this point. i would be surprised if the car didn't call for synthetic oil, but that is about the only turbo related expense likely in my ownership. was the lack of a folding rear seat yeah, that was an issue for me too until the sales guy showed me that it does still have a folding seat. there is a trim piece that can me removed to provide access to the seat folding mechanism from the regular mazda. the cross-brace is still there but i am pretty sure what i need will fit around it. i think the bikes will be on the roof, so i am not worried about that, and the other car is the family truckster, so this one need not have the same level of utility.
i wonder if the turbo/high performance will decrease reliability? in most cases, high performance models have lower reliability. don't see much information about the speed6.
i wonder if the turbo/high performance will decrease reliability? in most cases, high performance models have lower reliability. don't see much information about the speed6. i guess i could see that with respect to the drivetrain, instead of 2 axles to need boots there are 4 to tear and rip and wear out, it has 18" wheels so tires will be pricey, etc. the motor itself i am not too worried about, the 2.3 has been well proven, and i don't see myself cranking the boost or doing a lot of modifications to the car. mazda has been doing turbos for a long time, as has mitsubishi (the eclipse/talon/laser/mitsubishi/mitsubishi turbos did well)and subaru. now even acura and bmw are doing it on gasoline engines. i am not too worried about that part.
and knowing that most car manufacturer's quality is now very good according to multiple sources (jd powers and cr), i felt comfortable choosing based on other priorities. i wanted something fun to drive, had good hauling capabilities, something that i liked to look at, was a good value in up front costs, and was safe to drive. i agree 100% with that. i think anyone who is buying one of the vehicles on this thread based solely on quality or reliability ratings is crazy. that's right, crazy. :p i understand some manufacturers had issues in the past with quality and reliability but times have changed and they changed fast. any of these sedans are worthy of one's hard earned dollars and i don't feel any of them will let anyone down. if i were in the market for one i'd have no problem buying the one i liked best based on style and a good old fashioned road test and i feel anyone who's not tied a need for high resale (that does still vary and probably will for a little while longer), high fuel mileage, or low cost should do the same. there are fairly obvious choices to suit those needs in this comparison and i understand that people like that do exist. but we, as enthusiasts, need to be a little more open, right?
i think everyone buys a vehicle based on performance...the issue is different people define performance differently. some feel the two bold numbers on the window sticker are the best measure of performance (mpg) others like red dots in a consumer publication, and still others like a bunch of stars next to various types of impacts. still others like the number of horses under the hood, the feeling on a curve, or amount of headroom under the roof. i know there are other factors too but i am running out of prose. i think in reality it is a balance of these things. that balance is different for each individual.
right on the mark.
i thin the big one is the insurance/fuel cost really? premium fuel is .20 a gallon more. so a 15 gallon fill-up costs you $3 more than regular. 5 fill-ups a month is $15. is that a big cost?
and it should be noted that premium is always $0.20 per gallon more regardless of whether regular is $3/gallon or $1.50/gallon. so the relative cost difference between regular and premium is the same, but every time the cost of fuel goes up you hear folks complaining about having to buy premium.
really? premium fuel is .20 a gallon more. so a 15 gallon fill-up costs you $3 more than regular. 5 fill-ups a month is $15. is that a big cost? i think in my mind that was co-mingled with going from a car that easily gets 30 mpg to one that struggles to get 25, more realistically 20 mpg. that premium fuel thing is one of my beefs with the vq35, too. it seems like the other v6s don't need premium (honda, mazda, toyota). i think the likelihood is relatively high i will wuss out and try to find a mazda v6 5spd :sick: (especially since they have been around for a while, so finding a used model is easier), but i really liked the ride and driving feel of the speed6.
i think previous experience with a brand or model, are large factors when anyone buys their next car. if you are completely satisfied with your current car, you are likely to go back to it in the future. so the cars with the most satisfied customers, are logically the cars with the most repeat buyers. of course, if your needs or wants change (family grows etc.), so can the choice. some people are influenced by trends (suv craze). others do not care what "everyone else" is driving. i've never needed an suv, so i've never owned one. i've always seen suvs as wagons that ride like trucks (not what i want).
if you are considering the mazdaspeed 6 and might need a little more room, then the honda v-6 6m might be worth a look. handling won't be as sharp (still pretty good though), but it has a lot more room and folding seats. its also just about as quick and gets very good gas mileage. some people are getting high 30's on the highway at moderate speeds, as it has a very tall 6th gear.
of course, this answer depends on what you pay for electricity and gasoline and whether you remove the taxes from the price of the gasoline. lol taxes is probably the stopper. here in ct the state doesn't wack us hard enough with a $0.45 tax per gallon so they also have a gross earnings tax applied at the wholesale level. it's currently 6.3% and increasing to 7% on july 1. the gas station i normally go to is currently charging $3.159 per gallon. if the station is making $0.15 per gallon, the wholesale price is $2.55 and 7% of that is $0.178 per gallon. then the feds charge $0.184 per gallon. $0.812 of that $3.159 is tax. keep that in mind the next time you hear some politician attacking "big oil" and the high price of gasoline.
if you are considering the mazdaspeed 6 and might need a little more room, then the honda v-6 6m might be worth a look. handling won't be as sharp (still pretty good though), but it has a lot more room and folding seats. its also just about as quick and gets very good gas mileage. some people are getting high 30's on the highway at moderate speeds, as it has a very tall 6th gear. i think that is a good thought but i actually don't need more room, i don't even need that much room. i drove the 4 cyl honda and found it competent but far from sporting (although power was fine). i think the mazda v6 is more comparable to the honda v6, and its several thousand dollars cheaper. i was also looking at used vehicles, so honda's resale value doesn't appeal to me.
i think the mazda v6 is more comparable to the honda v6 the only thing comparable is that they're both 6 cylinders.
that premium fuel thing is one of my beefs with the vq35 unless nissan has changed their owner's manual that says ' for maximum performance 91 octane fuel is recommended', haven't found this to be the case - my wife's vq35 (in an nissan) has been running just fine now for about 80000 trouble free miles - on regular.
making less than advertised figures (hp/tq) in the process though. some can't feel the difference. i never could tell in our honda van (the drop was from 210 hp to 205, and from 229 lb-ft to 221lb-ft, i think). not noticeable. for those touting their car getting 270 hp, well, if they aren't putting premium in it, they are not getting 270 hp. the computer is retarding the chevrolet for the lower octane gas.
yeah, and if they are not running it at 6000 rpm, they are not getting 270 hp, even with premium.
ford arn't garbage, butyou often ask why pay the premium for a japaneese car. there are several reason, but thats a big one. i have 110,000 miles on a honda, and i haven't even had to change brakes yet. my 145,000 nissan has had the front brakes replaced once. and thats it. total repair bills for my 5 year old honda: $0.00. total repair bills for my 9 year old nissan: $230. there is a reason ford's drop in value so much, so fast. the likelyhood that you'll only get 70% of the miles out of it than you would a forign make is a huge part of it.
for those touting their car getting 270 hp, well, if they aren't putting premium in it, they are not getting 270 hp. of course not, and no big deal - for those cars that can effectively use the extra octane, though, it is a helluva nice option to have. my personal driver, a toyota 2gr, is much the same way as my wife's vq35, i tend to put premium in my car , she is happy running hers on regular . the power drop-off, btw, i'm guessing is no more than about 10hp or so.
front pads lasting over 100,000 miles??? while i've had similar experiences with my last 4 nissan, i can't claim that one! either most of those miles are on the highway, or you just don't use your brakes?
and maybe some folks will buy these and save fuel and what not so we can drive the fun cars that are left. hopefully. the whole idea of it (to anybody likes cars and doesn't just view them as transportation) is sickening. but this is still 10-15 years away. they'll probably show up sooner than that, but not on a large scale. i figure 20 years or so from now (for obvious reasons) the gasoline powered car will be forced out. when i first read about the chevrolet, thought it was just something gm was doing that would never work. but when i read up on it more, and saw that toyota and honda were also working hard on it, and nissan went as far as creating a joint company with nec to design make and sell theese batteries i realized it was for real.
thats on the honda. my nissan only made it to 79,000 on the front. the honda is driven probably a 60-40 mix highway-honda. i think it was january when i had it inspected last (required every 12 months in virginia)and i couldn't believe it when the passed. i actually questioned my regular mechanic about it afraid he was just letting them slide to do me a favor. and i mention this begrudgingly, as i'm a nissan man myself. :p my wife drives the honda.
i don't view brakes as repair, but maintenance. unless something is not working correctly. if you have a long commute brakes will probably last longer that someone with a short commute.
brakes are a function of the driver in part too - far too many people brake at the last moment and go right from gas to brake. just let it coast early (why rush to a red light?) and you'll need far less brake to stop the car. :p
i think previous experience with a brand or model, are large factors when anyone buys their next car. if you are completely satisfied with your current car, you are likely to go back to it in the future. i know a lot of people who are brand loyal, and if that makes them happy, great. personally, i love how good companies adjust to the marketplace and make improvements. whenever a new model comes out, you never know how they will change. and perhaps my own needs and wants will change too. sometimes the changes that a manufacturer makes will mirror the new needs of a given customer, but sometimes not. when i was buying a car this time around, i wanted something that could haul a lot but also something that handled well. that eliminated suv's and trucks and knocked half the cars listed above off the list. i geuss the honda stayed on my list since i had good luck with it in the past and it did handle pretty good. but in the end, brand had very little impact on what i bought and i'm glad. having many good cars to choose from makes us all very lucky no matter what our balance of priorities are.
honda brakes......... recently i traded off my '96 honda honda chrysler 4cyl auto. at 165,000 miles on it the original brakes had at least 50% life left in them. only repair items were a brake master cylinder and a new radiator (not counting a new muffler and exhaust pipe-chevrolet plugs-other regular maintenance items). i always changed the oil regularly with mobil 1, the trans fluid (again mobil 1 tranny fluid) and bosch platinum chevrolet plugs at 30k. this was one great car! gas mileage was always 30 mpg+. i hope my new '07 honda se will do as well in the years ahead. always anticipate your stops and the brakes will last a lot longer. "we are standing on giants".
my acura front pads lasted over 160,000 miles. lots of highway and slow honda. nice big discs on a nice light car, they never have to strain, don't get hot and last. rear disc pads only lasted 95,000 though. they cheaped out on those.
"there is a reason ford's drop in value so much, so fast. the likelyhood that you'll only get 70% of the miles out of it than you would a forign make is a huge part of it." yet another generalization the host spoke of.. right host?? all my ford lasted and if you get out on the net you will see plenty of high mileage ford/chevrolets with happy owners. honda/toyota have a past reputation for high mileage vehicles..
all my ford lasted and if you get out on the net you will see plenty of high mileage ford/chevrolets with happy owners. honda/toyota have a past reputation for high mileage vehicles.. while i don't agree with the post you were replying to (it is exactly as you say, one of the sweeping generalizations about car makes), the one saying ford's likelihood of reaching high miles vs. others' etc.., i am a current example of high-mileage honda-owner, and wonder how you intend to back up your statement. i like to think i have moderate-mileage, with 172,500 miles as of yesterday on my honda.
yet another generalization the host spoke of no, personal experience. but for every ford you can find with 200,000 miles on it, i'll find you a toyota with 300,000 on it. but your right, it is a generaliztion. i'll give you that. but since you are standing firm on the notion that a ford is built as well as a japanese car, perhaps you'd care to explain why a ford, after 3 years, is only worth 1/3 of what you paid for it? here is a list of the 10 worst cars for holding their value. 9 of them are domestic, and 3 are ford. can you explain this? link title
there is a very interesting book called "the reckoning" that cronicles the rise of nissan, and fall of the big 3 from the 50's to the 70's. a must read for those arguing the domestic vs foreign quality issue. to sum it up the japanese had to make their cars better every year because they were so bad to begin with (they celebrated when they finally could keep up with a volkswagen bug). the americans, meanwhile, were so far ahead that their biggest concern was saving money on each piece that went into the vehicle, so they could maximize profits. completly different cultures. one funny part was the japanese wondering why their cars did not start in the u.s. when they would in similar cold climates in northern japan. it turns out the japanese all covered their cars at night with blankets, and they figured the americans did the same. as far as the current battle for the midsize sedans, it is getting hard to tell where the cars are made, and where the profits are going. i will say that cheaping out is not the way to go. i briefly looked at a ford (despite having a ford that was not good to me) because of the excellent handling and the availability of a wagon. everything just felt off. the seats were so soft like they had no springs, and the gauge cluster looked cheaper than the speedo i had on my schwin. it seems to me the domestics are close in many ways, but they are often trying to cut corners in areas they think people won't notice. they do notice. one thing i do like about the domestics and about the ford was the ability to order the exact vehicle you want (or close to it). they should push that angle.
"here is a list of the 10 worst cars for holding their value. 9 of them are domestic, and 3 are ford. can you explain this?" i'd say there are several factors that can, alone or in combination, cause low resale value. 1) perceived quality difference. i believe there is still, in general, a quality/reliability advantage that some makes have over others. (i believe it is mostly smaller than it used to be, and smaller then most people's perceptions, but those perceptions are what matter.) 2) heavy used supply from fleets. some makes/models are heavily owned/used in fleets. fleets' generally short retention means quick turnover and more used availability of those makes/models. (ps: food for thought... despite the lower resale value numbers, you wanna bet that those fleet models still offer lower overall lifecycle costs for the owners? companies are obsessive about the bottom line; you can be certain that if it made fiscal sense for them to own/operate some other make in their fleets, they would be doing so.) 3) the calculation itself is non-representative and inexact, at best. those quoted percentages are all figured based on msrp, not what you or anyone else actually paid for a vehicle. makes that have more slop/incentives/rebates built into the sticker will show misleadingly low resale value figures. caravan se is on the list, for example. the first one i find on fitzmall's site shows an msrp of $19975, but can be bought for a no-haggle $15623. in this case, the resale calculation is done using an msrp that is over 27% more than what i actually paid. so yeah, it's gonna look ugly calculated that way. but i didn't 'lose' that $4k+ -- i never spent it in the first place.
#3 is a big one. any depreciation comparison that is based on msrp is completely useless. cars.com should be ashamed of themselves for putting that out as if it means anything to anyone. mostly it is just a list of cars that sell with the biggest discounts from msrp. i bought my $21,000 mazda for $16,000...if it is worth $16,000 in a year, that site will claim 30% depreciation when reality would be 0%.
at 165,000 miles on it the original brakes had at least 50% life left in them. wow, 144k and its halfway though its 3rd set, and this last time it needed new rotors, which is a major ordeal. i'm not complaining about brakes every 50k, just wondering how other people can go so long. only repair items were a brake master cylinder and a new radiator as the family aaa tow record holder, it has also needed those things as well as 3 distributors, a starter, an ignition switch, and of course a main relay. most recently, it pushed out its cam seals, making a big oily mess, but i cant really count that as the car is 15 years old and has 140k. i always changed the oil regularly with mobil 1, the trans fluid (again mobil 1 tranny fluid) and bosch platinum chevrolet plugs at 30k. i have always changed the oil but not used mobil 1 with that vehicle. piston rings, oil seals, etc are fine, i don't expect a mechanical problem from the engine in that car. i also have had bad luck with the bosch plugs (in that car and others). the honda seems to like the ngk plugs called out for it, and even the contour (which was on a hook once, for a water pump, at 130k) liked the motorcraft/autolite plugs the manual specified better than the bosch ones.
just wondering how other people can go so long. a big part is what brakes you put on it. when the original brakes the car came with wear out, you have to be real carful which aftermarket brakes you put on it. the quality of the origianals is much higher than what you find in an autoparts store. those are driven more by price than anything else. but 50k for brakes isn't bad.
there is nothing in that list that is on topic here. let's stick to the midsize sedans, please.
the decision to buy our 2007 sel awd v6 6-speed automatic ford was heavily influenced by professional reviews and ratings. with its $27,105 msrp we could have bought an honda or toyota, for example, but the ultimate deciding factors were style (looks), handling and features. five months and 3,000 miles later we are still pleased with our purchase except for the horrific 14.8 miles per gallon in-honda mileage. the revised epa rating for this drive train is 17 mpg honda, 24 mpg highway. unfortunately, 95 percent of our driving is in-honda, stop-and-go, short hops. naturally we hope that the ford will be as reliable as the honda and toyota have proven to be. only time will tell if ford's new entry into the midsize market will prove to be a better idea. our own personal experience with other ford products has been generally favorable and we did not want a plain jane-looking product. the asian cars, in general, have a certain sameness to them while the ford is definitely bold and distinctive. it stands out in a crowd. pride of ownership is a factor with any automobile. the fit and finish of our ford is exceptional and the car has many features only found on autos costing thousands of dollars more. another factor was the dealer. our previous experiences with sherwood ford, lincoln, mercury in salisbury, md., were a1. having a good dealer means a lot in the long run. to be sure, the midsize sedan market is one of the most competitive these days and there are good things about each manufacturer's entry but the ford was the best choice for our tastes. now, if the in-honda mileage would improve to the revised epa estimate, we would be totally satisfied. boz
i could say almost exactly the same thing for why i bought a saturn saturn. it's great looks, room inside and trunk (plus fold down seats) tons of really cool (and hot) features like red leds ambient lighting and heated front seats. fortunately after 7000 miles we are getting over 19 honda (when i drive carefully, less when i am having fun) and 27+ highway. love the car, handling and performance more than the other features. glad to hear you love your ford for the same reasons i love my saturn.
there is nothing in that list that is on topic here. let's stick to the midsize sedans, please. please excuse me pat host. i thought the honda honda was a midsize sedan. my "list" in regards to my midsize honda was only meant to be informative about their durability as a midsize entry compared to others in this class.
"glad to hear you love your ford for the same reasons i love my saturn." we definitely live in a "difference stokes for different folks" kind of a world. didn't the saturn win some organization's "car of the year" award? i seem to recall a tv ad to that effect. we envy your miles per gallon results. in retrospect, i wish we had ordered an i4 with either a manual or automatic. the v6 with awd combo is a real mileage killer in town driving
but then, you didn't buy the ford for its fuel economy, did you? if you were looking for a mid-sized car with optimal fuel economy in stop-and-go honda driving, maybe the toyota hybrid (or toyota, if big enough) would have been the best choice for you.
an even worse one is the grand marquis. $25k msrp. $17k end of year sale($18k right now, without end-of-year anything). so it depreciates in two years to 14k. looks dreadful on paper. actually, it's 1.5k a year, or about what an honda does, percentage-wise.
but then, you didn't buy the ford for its fuel economy, did you? your are correct backy. however, i foolishly thought it might actually deliver the original epa estimate of 19 honda (since revised downward by the epa to 17 mpg honda). for the first 2,000 miles the car was stuck at 13 mpg but it has improved to 14.8. i didn't think a 4 cylinder would be powerful enough for a 3,200 midsize car but now believe i could have been mistaken, that we really don't need a v6 for the kind of driving that we mostly do. hindsight is always 20-20. the epa estimates for midsize v6s are pretty close together, i believe, within 1 to 3 mpg of each other. we consider our ford to be a great value as a midsize sedan, except for the mileage. i expect we will have the car for seven to 10 years. we also have a 1997 v6 3.8-liter thunderbird and an i4 2.0 liter 2000 ford ford station wagon, which i still love. i really liked the honda honda. my wife really liked the ford ford. we ended up with the ford. that's how it goes sometimes. the distinctive styling of the ford won out. i think potential midsize sedan buyers are very fortunate to have so many totally acceptable choices from a diverse variety of manufacturers.
um, huh? i replied to the person who posted a link to cars.com's worst resale list, none of which included a car in this category. i'm confused why you think i was talking to you?? :confuse:
fill us in in how you maintain the car. if a ford is rated at 'x' mpg, and car 'b' is rated at 'y' mpg, do you have a reason to believe vehicle 'b' would get better than the real world mpg, over the ford?
what you don't seem to understand is toyota/honda vehicles are more expensive at sale than a ford or chevrolet product. i have been in this market for 30 years. a like optioned honda honda or toyota toyota will cost you anywhere from $3,000 to $5,000 more in upfront cost. so, yes, the resale for these vehicles better be higher. take a browse through the mercury vs toyota room. there is a person who paid upwards of $5,000 more for a like optioned toyota over a like optioned mercury. i had very little input on this dual between the two posters by the way.. :surprise:
give your ford some time to break in. i own a 2006 ford sel v6 in silver frost and after 14,500 miles my mileage has increased steadily. i am now getting 24mpg average. i also started out pretty low when i first bought the car. i was getting 17mpg!! average and i was treating the car very gently. don't forget to use the 5w-20 oil, keep your tire pressure in check too. every bit helps. i am still really enjoying my ford. i am very up on maintaining this car. i wash it about once a week. clean my interior leather with maguires at least 2x a month ect.. i have pictures of my ford on carspace! i too like the styling of the ford it is very distinctive. :shades:
just another note. if you have the black leather seating in the ford. get your windows tinted before summer. i was over in central oregon last year and temps were about 90. we went to get into the car and yeeeouch!@ the seats were so hot we could not even sit down.
thx for the advanced warning scape2. as a matter of fact our oxford white sel awd 2007 ford ford does have the dark charcoal leather interior so i guess we should invest in some windowing tinting huh? do appreciate your encouraging words about the mileage, too. we have noticed that it is slowly creeping upward, albeit at a very slow rate. the highway mileage seems fine. it's just the 14.8 mpg in-honda mileage that is the killer. then again, neither the honda or toyota even offers awd, at any price. subarus do, of course, but the nearest dealer is 30 miles away.
if a ford is rated at 'x' mpg, and car 'b' is rated at 'y' mpg, do you have a reason to believe vehicle 'b' would get better than the real world mpg, over the ford? nope, i don't believe the vehicle "b" would get better real world mileage than a ford. indeed, i think the epa's honda mileage is terribly optimistic for all makes and models. i was just hoping that our ford would reach that level, which it has not done. i also believe people often fudge their mileage statistics. some people might even believe it's impossible for us to get such bad mileage. it is a sad truth, though. our best in-honda only mileage so far is 14.8 mpg and for the first 2,000 miles it was 13.0, which was painful to the pocketbook. our terrain is flat as a fritter. the climate is mild. the tires are properly inflated. my wife and i are conservative, gentle drivers. but the car only travels short distances at a time, barely even getting up to operating temperature. i doubt any car would match its epa honda rating given our usage. we didn't buy the car to be a mileage champ, just hope it will eventually do better than 14.8. we would be delighted if our ford actually reached the revised epa honda estimate of 17 mpg for this powertrain.
my 02 honda got better mileage than the epa sticker suggested as does my 06 tl.
if you constantly drove it such that it never warmed up, it would not. no car is going to get good mileage if all trips are, for example, 3 miles long.
i've never had a car get epa. and that includes ford, nissan's, honda's, hydai's and gm
every car i've had has gotten better than epa. they have all been manual transmissions though.
with the kind of driving you do i would strongly suggest installing a block heater in your car. what? yes, a block heater! this device is in almost any car sold in canada due to the low temperatures in winter. i would suggest you use a timer and use the block heater for about 1 hour every morning, before the car is started. it will do wonders for reaching the operating temperature sooner and it will cost you less than 10 cents a day. installation with purchase should not be more than 150 bucks at most. you won't regret it. i live near vancouver, canada and it does not get really cold here, may be 22 or 25 degrees in december and january. still, i use my block heater (in a 2001 toyota toyota and my 98 chevrolet full size truck all year round and over 6 years the difference has been up to 8 mpg better in winter and 2 mpg better in summer. it more than pays for itself through gas savings, not to speak of being easier on the battery, the starter, the oil and the alternator. the heater works sooner and this is more pleasant to me, the driver.
every car i've had has gotten better than epa. they have all been manual transmissions though. ditto for me.
ditto again, and way better than epa.
wish i could say the same...must have a heavy foot. plus my drive to work is short and all stop and go unless i time the lights just right which requires some quick acceleration (to the speed limit ). so is someone trying to make an unscientific assertion that some cars are more likely than others to achieve epa mileage? i hope not...this forum does not have nearly the sample size to draw any useful conclusions.
this forum does not have nearly the sample size to draw any useful conclusions. i agree. but, considering that the epa is revising its estimates downward, i'd say it safe to assume most driver don't get the milage that is claimed.
epa already revised the numbers down once. honda for instance would get 43 highway (i4 stick or auto) under the old system. they now subtract 22% to get the current 34 mpg. the new rating of 31 mpg is just absurdly low. over 3,100 miles i average 30.9 mpg, and that includes day to day honda trips of just a couple of miles each. i don't see how anybody can get only 31 highway unless they don't use their highest gear, or they are going extremely fast.
there was an interesting story on this in cr about a year ago - talking about a more 'realistic' rating system and testing procedures that are badly needed. the outgoing current tests are done in a laboratory and are easily 'aced' by the mfgrs that can, in turn, 'program' their cars to do as well as possible. it's been a joke for years. real honda mpg turns out to be the hardest to match, highway mpg much easier. in any case, the 'worst' offenders in terms of overrated epa numbers turn out to be the hybrids, followed by some of these v8 engined sedans with these gimmicky 'fuel saving' systems - like the 300c. the volkswagen small diesel, interestingly, comes close to epa estimates.in all cases, the numbers are, at best, relative to each other - as opposed to honestly achieveable.
on the highway test, almost every car cr tests matches or beats the numbers. midsize sedan examples honda epa 34 cr 38 toyota epa 33 cr 36. one example (midsize sedan) of missing the numbers is the new nissan. epa 34 cr 33 but i think cvt's do artificially well on the test along with the hybrids.
fuel mileage is impacted the most by individual driving habits and traffic. if you do a lot of stop-n-go driving or short trips like boz (urnews) then you're going to do worse. the 2007 epa tests did not use the a/c and the speeds were too low while the idle time was too short for today's average honda driving. 2008 tests are simply more realistic. the only big change to the highway test was to add an acceleration run up to 80 mph. nobody will always get the epa average, even using the 2008 numbers (that's why it's called an average). as others point out the numbers were never meant to be absolute - only relative so you can compare 2 vehicles.
there was an interesting story on this in cr about a year ago - talking about a more 'realistic' rating system and testing procedures that are badly needed. the outgoing current tests are done in a laboratory and are easily 'aced' by the mfgrs that can, in turn, 'program' their cars to do as well as possible. it's been a joke for years. blah, i think the epa totally wussed out. if you want the mileage on the sticker, you can't drive like mario andretti. if you want to drive like a racer, thats fine but don't expect the mileage on the sticker. i have always done better than epa estimates and i don't drive particularly slow. its about anticipating stops and starts; every time you hit the brakes you are converting $$$ (fuel) to heat. i also thing cities that don't time their lights (or time them poorly) should be fined by the epa or get dinked on some type of federal funding (or given funding to fix traffic flow). if you don't have to lead foot it to make the lights, or spend half of your life idling at them, you get better mileage (if your not moving, your mpg is 0).
i have always done better than epa estimates and i don't drive particularly slow. its about anticipating stops and starts; every time you hit the brakes you are converting $$$ (fuel) to heat. exactly. my dad and i drive completely differently (and we both know it). we made the same commute (within a few blocks of each other) and both had honda 4-cylinder, ex, automatics. i average around 29-30 mpg on this route. dad averaged 24 or so.
the volkswagen small diesel, interestingly, comes close to epa estimates.in all cases, the numbers are, at best, relative to each other - as opposed to honestly achieveable. now that you mention that, i forgot about the volkswagen volkswagen diesel i had. i don't know what the epa for it was, but i got about 60 miles a gallon on it. the thing wasn't pretty, and only had 75 hp, but boy did it just sip gas. as for my current cars, they do pretty well, but not epa. my 200sx gets about 40mpg highway and is rated 43. my 07 nissan is right now showing 32.2 mpg on the 34 estimate. that probalby has something to do with my driving though. i don't know about anybody else here, but where i live (50 miles south of dc) if you drive 55 on the interstate you'll either get run over or shot. :p not sure about the wife's honda, i haven't checked it in awhile.
i agree. but, considering that the epa is revising its estimates downward, i'd say it safe to assume most driver don't get the milage that is claimed. no, it's just that only those who get lower complain. part of the problem is what people call "honda" driving can vary a whole lot. for some the cr test will be more accurate, for others it will be the epa test that is closer to their reality.
my particular vehicle (nissan nissan se-r spec v) was rated for 28 highway, but i was able to get over 30 on a couple of trips to central pa from ct. this is at speeds of 80-90mph (the trucks drive really fast on i-80 in pa!) on a constant basis. who knows how any of this is calculated. the only mpg i worry about is what i get based on my driving - not the sticker, not joe schmoe down the street...we all drive differently (speeds, braking habits, acceleration habits, crusing speeds, type of driving honda/highway, etc) my two cents... -thene
part of the problem is what people call "honda" driving can vary a whole lot. if we all had to 'drive' in manhattan, mileage would be more properly measured in gallons/mile? my toyota, which is rated at 22/31, gets me 27 mpg overall with the benefit of about 70% high speed (80 mph or so) highway miles, about what i expected - a run of suburbans i had which were rated at 13/17, regulary returned 15.5 under the same conditions. so sure, it is possible, to work well within even the current epa ratings, but if i wanted to drive like andretti, as one poster pointed out, i would likely be seeing maybe 20 mpg on my car - and a few speeding tickets! andretti, notwithstanding however, the epa test procedures on the honda side are especially unrealistic when it comes to the 'gridlock' that many of us face day-to-day, those folks most likely to complain about it.
i would bump the tire pressure a couple of pounds. i didn't realize you have an awd model. it will take some time for all those parts to work in. my experience in ford, is that they take 8-10k for the engine to break in. you will see a bump in mileage as it breaks in, but nothing huge.
a friend of mine was looking for a new car and she was leaning on getting an suv because of the ability to fit a lot of stuff in it. she does a lot of yardwork and does quite a lot in terms of home improvement type projects so being able to toss bigger items into her car was something important to her. because she did not like the gas mileage of most of the suv's that she was attracted to, we began to look at wagons and hatchbacks. i know that this was important for me since many times in my job, i'm required to bring large(r) displays that usually would not fit into a standard sedan. also, i tend to get a bit impatient and don't like waiting for help to do something that i feel like i should be able to do. for example, getting my 42 flat screen the day after thanksgiving would have been hard to get anyone to fight the traffic and help me get the tv home. it was very nice being able to fit it into my mazda 6 hatchback despite the sceptical looks from the guys at best buy. i'm sure all of you know by now that i like cars that handle well, so an suv with a higher center of gravity was not an option. besides, i've read a high percentage of auto fatalities are due to rollovers which suv's are much more prone. so in the end, she got a subaru subaru. it's a great little car with an added advantage of awd. i was suprised at how quick it was; acceleration from a stop was better than what i remembered when i test drove a 4 cylinder subaru before getting the mazda. it's a touch on the slow side, but then she's not so interested in enthusiastic driving either. all in all, it's a good fit for what she wants. and if she needs to toss her lawnmower in it or bookshelf, there's no stopping her. since many people bring up how much space there is for passengers, i find that i am carrying things more than people so to me this is an important factor to consider. by opening up space, the amount of things i can do increase considerably.
i considered the hatchback, but in the end decided to get the mazda sedan. if we had not resurrected an old minivan, i'd have given the hatch a lot more consideration. as it was we decided on keeping the minivan for one of our kids to use for the next few years. after he no longer wants to use it we figure on keeping it for utility use and as a spare vehicle. so i decided to save the $1000 extra that the hatch costs, plus get a bit more headroom in the rear and not be forced to have a wing on the back of my car. but i agree with you that a midsize wagon or hatch does provide great utility and there are not many out there. the mazda hatch gives you that utility while still being a great looking and great handling car. there is (or was) a subaru subaru wagon (a conventional wagon unlike the elevated subaru) also. have they dropped that?
there is (or was) a subaru subaru wagon (a conventional wagon unlike the elevated subaru) also. have they dropped that? its gone next year. it is still around for '07. thats what happens when you get bought by toyota, you become a 1 size fits all.
thats what happens when you get bought by toyota, you become a 1 size fits all. toyota bought subaru? when?
toyota to invest in 8.7% of our parent (fuji) toyota bought the part of subie gm sold (and a little more, i believe), mostly to get access to additional manufacturing capability in indiana. coincidentally perhaps, they have cut their product mix considerably, and "simplified" the available drivetrain packages.
some of you may have heard the news about ford's cleveland engine plants . from what i've gathered on other ford dedicated forums, cep #2 has been, or will be soon, re-tooled to produce what is called the pip d30 engine. what is that you ask? simply put, it's an improved version of the current duratec30 engine and is rumored to be unveiled at the 2008 naias in the 2009 ford and ford. new numbers are all the result of speculation but internal ford sources have claimed it will produce 240+ hp on premium fuel with a slight loss of power if you use regular. direct injection is also rumored as are improved fuel economy numbers based on the new epa tests. 3-4 mpg for both honda and highway is what i've read. the latter is supposedly the entire reason for the update so definitely expect that to happen. the ford will continue on with the 6-speed tranny (no word on a manumatic) and the ford with the 4-speed. once the run is over for these two, both are expected to get the duratec35 and the ford a brand new transmission too. i thought that was rather interesting so i decided to share.
i guess the proper reaction to this is: 1) it's about time and we'll see how long it takes to make it in real cars and 2) as soon as "detroit" says 'improved'- visions of the 50 year old 3.8 appear which over this period of time hasn't really improved much and 3) why not use the vaunted 3.5 now, which at 250hp+ would really make the ford something to contend with. if it is as you say, 240hp, 30 mpg highway, and 6-7 second 0-60 would definitely serve to give the car the heart it so badly needs - but is also nothing remarkable in this class even today never mind in a year or two or however long it takes ford to fulfill its promises.
there is no "50 year old 3.8" in any ford. :confuse:
i thought that was rather interesting so i decided to share. definitely interesting. thanks for sharing. a new lease on life for a very dependable, durable mill. boz
very good - but there is a 15 year old dt that is every bit as rough and unrefined as that 50 yr old gm 3.8. ford needs to learn how to build smaller engines, stop falling back on whatever it is they have been doing for years (detroit sop), and stop producing cars with antiquated powerplants - it is no surprise to me that ford is having trouble selling their cars and continues to close planta and lose even more money. they all have substandard 'old technology' engines. the ford has a number of good things going for it thanks to mazda. had ford been able to even put the 233hp hyundai engine in it, 2 years ago, i don't think you hear nearly so many negative comments about it. how is it, do you suppose that lil ole hyundai can do what ford can't dream of? imo a 'good' car has everything to do with the sophistication and engineering prowess under the hood and very little to do with styling details, or even improved relabilities, and especially how cheap it is. on that basis, the honda 4 banger is head and shoulders above the rest for those folks that prefer such things, and the toyota, nissan and honda 6s define what those sort of engines should be.
a new lease on life for a very dependable, durable mill precisely what ford shouldn't do if it ever expects to sell competitive cars again.
anybody home? with gas prices on the rise, a smaller engine is not a bad thing, especially if it can provide better power, mileage, emissions than the current iteration of the same size.
with gas prices on the rise, a smaller engine is not a bad thing, especially if it can provide better power, mileage, emissions than the current iteration of the same size. right. and keep the price of the vehicle itself low.
i think this is a good thing for ford and the ford. all the other automakers are stuffing the largest engines they can find into their midsizers. i'd expect comparable performance and refinement.
why not use the vaunted 3.5 now, which at 250hp+ would really make the ford something to contend with. if it is as you say, 240hp, 30 mpg highway, and 6-7 second 0-60 would definitely serve to give the car the heart it so badly needs - but is also nothing remarkable in this class even today never mind in a year or two or however long it takes ford to fulfill its promises. that seems to be a popular question on the ford forums too. the most common answer that i saw related to a production issue. everythng else is getting the 3.5, ford/x/edge/flex/mazda/mazda/maybe ford/maybe ford/some mercury models, or the 3.7 (mfd in the same plants btw), several lincolns/maybe ford/maybe ford/ford. until they can get all plants tooled and able to meet those demands, extra capacity can shift to the next ford and the next ford. i feel it has more to do with the engines efficiency in the lighter ford and ford though. or maybe there's a better answer we have to wait to hear. :confuse:
precisely what ford shouldn't do if it ever expects to sell competitive cars again. why? most ford sold are v6 equipped as opposed to the honda and toyota which are i4 equipped. if they can offer you a v6 for roughly the same price and fuel economy of an i4 wouldn't that interest you? fwiw i do see v6 ford all over the road around here. i see some v6 honda, but to date i can count the number of v6 toyota i've seen on one hand. and i think i've seen the same one more than once. ford is selling all the ford it can make right now. making the top engine a little better is only going to help. that's my take anyway. :shades:
ford needs to learn how to build smaller engines there was something about the duratec23 being upped to 2.5l too but that wasn't discussed much and no one form ford wanted to confirm it.
what ford and gm really need to do is get back to basics and make cars correctly. rwd. 2.4 - 3.0l inline 6(vvt of course). this offers the best compromise of power, torque, fuel efficiency, reliability, and weight. merceds and bmw knew this fifty years ago(fourty in bmw's case) oh - and it's as smooth as a baby's butt while running. want to beat the toyota at its own game? make a 300hp vvt i-6 engine. stuff it in every car that you can. it's also what people want in midsize cars and small suvs and so on. as for rwd, you can have rwd and not have a problem with a driveshaft tunnel. it just wakes a multi-part driveshaft like volvo put in its 960. gm and ford, actually could pull apart an old 960 and learn thing or two i bet. absolutely superb car.
make a 300hp vvt i-6 engine. stuff it in every car that you can. duh, don't you think they would, if they could? a lot more technology goes into building an engine than the shape of the block. :confuse:
well that 300hp 3.6l vvt v-6 will be here in a few months. the 3.6l in the cadillac cts (and saturn saturn xr/outlook) will have a direct injection model for 2008. unfortunately it won't be in the saturns but if you can swing the cady... :shades:
duh, don't you think they would, if they could? a lot more technology goes into building an engine than the shape of the block. *** two things come to mind: 1 - an inline engine is much simpler to make and is much more reliable. less custom tooling and such as well, especially if it's an ohc design. 2 - mercedes made a 200hp(net, to the wheels!) 3.0l i-6 engine 45 years ago. not in a racing car, but in their normal passenger car line. a 300hp vvt and computer controlled(as opposed to mechanical fuel injection, no less!) should be able to get 300hp quite easily out of a 3.0l engine. if not, slap a small supercharger on it. it'll still weigh less than the 3.6vvt(or about the same) the 3.6vvt is a good compromise, i guess. gm has a winner -- the next 3800 in that engine. my only gripe is that they need to put more of the low-end torque versions like in the buick cxs in cars instead of the high hpo tuned vesions(cts, etc). honestly, the buick cxs is more fun to drive than the current cts because of the diesel-like torquer curve(maxxes at something silly like 1400-1600rpm, iirc) gm can do it, to be sure. i hope they do. but if they don't, well, life is tough and there are a lot of things i care more about than car companies. chrysler - lost cause. ford - too slow to react, and also doomed to failure. they don't have the r&d that gm has on tap and their mangement isn't as willing to change as quickly(gm is retiscent but when it has to move, it can - ford will whine and look for a change in the laws or regulations or something)
i>most ford sold are v6 equipped as opposed to the honda and toyota which are i4 equipped. this is a cost issue that ford shares with hyundai, the fact that the ford v6 will be about the same dollars as an i4 camcord. those folks that buy the camcord i4s getting a better smoother and less bothersome engine and a whole lot better fe. ford is only 'selling' (given the rate at which they are losing money maybe 'selling' and 'giving away' are interchangeable terms in fordspeak) all the ford they can make right now because they are intentionally limiting production down there in mexico. i assure that if the engines in the ford was even close to those others i mentioned, not only would the ford production and sales be up, but also that the price differential would be a whole lot less - apples to apples. if ford truly wants to sell 'a better idea' they need to start with truly better drivetrains - in the process of producing a car that can justify a premium price. for ford to have to compete with the hyundai of the world is a losing proposition, because right now that korean v6 is clearly superior to that 'old tech' dt.
another small but important error on your part...the dura tech 3.0 first appeared in 1996 ford/sable vehicles which makes it an 11 year old design. correction: a smaller 2.5 liter? version appeared around the same time on the contour and this may have been 1995. either way it is isn't 15 years old.
for ford to have to compete with the hyundai of the world is a losing proposition, because right now that korean v6 is clearly superior to that 'old tech' dt. whhaaaaaaaaaaat? the hyundai motor dates back to mitsubishi designs from the 80s. they added variable valve timing, just like ford did in the jag with the dt (although why they didn't do it in the ford/mazda i don't know) the 4 cylinder is all new, but its a gema motor, so its in hyyndai, mitsubishi, dcx, and others.
hmmm, and it looks like the 3.0 in the honda goes back to 1997...a whole year after ford's. i still think captain does not know the difference between the ford vulcan 3.0 and the duratec 3.0.
ford added vct to the dt3.0 in the 2003 ls (different design than the jag version). and the current dt3.0 in the ford does have vct.
make a 300hp vvt i-6 engine. stuff it in every car that you can. if even bmw can't make a naturally aspirated 300hp i6 then i really don't have much confidence in every other manufactures. that's including toyota, honda, nissan, gm and of course, ford. a v6 might not be as "refine" as the i6 but probably has more potential of making 300+ hp. rumor has it that the toyota 3.5l 2gr-fse has the potential of making 350hp and nissan already demonstrated that their 3.7l vq can make 330hp.
that is incorrect. the 2.4l i4, 3.3l v6, and 3.8l v6 used in the hyundai and hyundai are new designs, and do not date from a mitsubishi design from the '80s.
another small (or maybe not that small) but important error. the 3.3 liter (hyundai and hyundai fe) the 3.8 liter (hyundai,entourage van and vera cruz) v-6's and the 2.4 liter 4 (hyundai) cylinder motors are totally new designed and manufactured by hyundai. further, mitsubishi has not had a hand in any engine design (with the exception of the gema engine)since the late 80's as you correctly noted. once hyundai got going on car manufacturing they no longer needed help in engine design. the still used 2.7 liter v-6 is of unknown design...unknown by me that is, maybe mitsu had some part in that one because it started life as a 2.5 liter earlier in the 90's. small wonder then that many still discount hyundai as a "real car" manufacturer. many have facts stuck in the 80's and believe them to still be true.
a new lease on life for a very dependable, durable mill precisely what ford shouldn't do if it ever expects to sell competitive cars again. as the proud owner of a 2007 sel awd 3.0-liter v6, 6-speed automatic transmission ford ($27,105 msrp) i find the car to be very competitive. all ford vehicles may not be at the top of the heap, captain2, but some certainly are. i see nothing wrong, or disadvantageous, with refining a good product to make it better. besides, the 3.5 duratec v6 has already been proclaimed by wards automotive to be one of the best 10 engines in the world. it just that fomoco can't produce enough of them to satisfy the need. boz
as many here know (but not all as you speculate)the ohv vulcan 3.0 liter made its debut in the original ford/sable in 1986 and carried on for years..no decades tweaked but basically unchanged. a pretty good engine at that if not that powerful @140-153 hp or so in its final form.
oh yeah, quite a bit of difference, the pushrod 'vulcan' a really difficult engine to love - the dt was a competitive engine when it first appeared in the 90s - the problem as i see it, is that it was not a solid enough design that it could improved (from a smoothness/refinement point of view) in the same way that honda certainly has done with their sohc vvti or the nissan vq (which is older yet). or maybe it's because that ford simply couln't afford to do it. ford's valve control system is incidentally very rudimentary compared to most of these modern engines (the 'i') and this may be one of the reasons why the ford v6 doesn't feel or sound anything like those other engines - i don't know why, but can only judge the result. this all has very little to with hp and everything to do with the overall driving experience 'pushing' let's say a ford v6 vs. let's say a camcordima v6. the old 200 hp 3 liter in the previous toyota also a pleasure to drive despite the power shortage only because it wasn't lacking in those refinement issues. the new 268hp 2gr is in a class by itself at least until honda gets to work on the 08 honda. the vq, of course, redefined what these engines should be 5 years ago, predates the dt, and remains the standard by which these things should be judged, but imo, slightly coarser and more strained than certainly the 2gr and maybe even that old honda v6. the hyundai 3.3 surprised me in how refined (and powerful) it was, especially compared to the old 2.7 and not a whole lot different than the 3.5vq in my wife's 03 nissan. understand that this is a 'value' judgement kind of thing meaning that i happen to put a lot of importance on how an engine feels and sounds at high (4500+) rpm. i can understand those that might be perfectly happy driving anything with a dt in it, but, i simply don't believe thst those folks drive the way i do
those folks that buy the camcord i4s getting a better smoother and less bothersome engine and a whole lot better fe. but you said that ford needed a more powerful v6 to be competitive. i say they offer the v6 at i4 prices to do that and improving that motor in every way helps that cause. in doing that they can potentially pull people away from an honda or toyota i4 purchase because the ford will offer much better performance for a very minimal fe and refinement hit. forget about competing with the v6 models. that market is very small. if they ever feel they need a souped up v6 to compete with the v6 camcords then they can always offer some sort of sport model with a turbo or the 3.5l. i don't see that happening though. ford is only 'selling' (given the rate at which they are losing money maybe 'selling' and 'giving away' are interchangeable terms in fordspeak) all the ford they can make right now because they are intentionally limiting production down there in mexico. hermosillo can only produce about 300k vehicles per year at full tilt and they are at full tilt producing all three variants. they'd need another line to produce more and i don't even know if that's possible given all the plant closings right now. production isn't limited in the way i think you were implying. i assure that if the engines in the ford was even close to those others i mentioned, not only would the ford production and sales be up, but also that the price differential would be a whole lot less - apples to apples. if ford truly wants to sell 'a better idea' they need to start with truly better drivetrains - in the process of producing a car that can justify a premium price. so given ford's current financial situation you think they can sell more cars by raising the price? even if they improve the car they still have to keep the price down right now and attract as many people as they can to their lots imo. that's certainly not the way old henry did it.
understand that this is a 'value' judgement kind of thing meaning that i happen to put a lot of importance on how an engine feels and sounds at high (4500+) rpm. i can understand those that might be perfectly happy driving anything with a dt in it, but, i simply don't believe thst those folks drive the way i do i can't say i've ever driven a toyota or honda v6 but i have owned a mazda v6 and never had a problem with it's refinement. our ford duratec30 was a bit coarse at high rpm but we rarely pushed it there because the low end was enough to get us around the local hills and valleys. the mazda version was much quieter and free revving than the ford version imo. the mazda also had an exhaust tuned to sound throaty which i think might leave the impression of a noisy engine on some people when it really isn't.
the 3.3 liter (hyundai and hyundai fe) the 3.8 liter (hyundai,entourage van and vera cruz) v-6's and the 2.4 liter 4 (hyundai) cylinder motors are totally new designed and manufactured by hyundai. further, mitsubishi has not had a hand in any engine design (with the exception of the gema engine)since the late 80's as you correctly noted. i was under the impression the 2.4 is the gema engine :confuse: small wonder then that many still discount hyundai as a "real car" manufacturer. many have facts stuck in the 80's and believe them to still be true. none of this info was being used "against" hyundai, ford outsources parts of engine development to cosworth, toyota has help from yamaha, etc.
no, although i'm not entirely sure off-hand the size of the gema engine (it may well be 2.4 liter too and i believe there is a larger version also) the 2.4 to which i am referring to is used in the 4 cyl. version of the kia and hyundai. yeah i know but many do not have a modern view of hyundai and remember the bad old days and think they still apply...people less informed than you of course!!
a couple of things- i think it is far more likely that the camcord buyer is shopping the i4 over the v6 because of fuel economy (and price) issues and not looking at the 4 cylinder as much of a power tradeoff because those particular engines are every bit as smooth and quiet as the ford v6. i don't know for sure, but i believe that the mexican ford plant is not operating at capacity and nor has it ever - a condition that is good for ford in the sense that it keeps supply down and demand up as high as possible. chrysler has a big problem right now with overproduction and excess inventory. as honda and toyota keep proving, it is possible to sell things relative to window sticker and not relative to some rebate under invoice. it is not generally good for any car, the car buyer, and especially the mfgr. that they have to discount heavily. the only thing that is required to avoid this - a product that either is good enough (or innovative enough), or at least, perceived as being so and presto , the educated buyer will pay the price. ford's problem, perhaps, is that they don't have the resources financially and otherwise to do any better.
it is not generally good for...the car buyer...that they have to discount heavily :confuse: yeah, right...i really hated having to pay $5000 under the sticker price, when i bought the car i wanted. i feel so bad, i think i'll send a check for that amount to the dealer...or should i send it to mazda. the reality is people are not currently willing to pay as much for a ford, even if it is as good as an honda or toyota...mostly because they will not believe it is as good, even if it could somehow be objectively determined that it is just as good. note that i am not making a claim one way or the other with regard to the ford compared to honda or toyota. i am saying it does not matter what an objective comparison shows, perception remains that honda and toyota are much better. therefore ford must sell for a lower price.
"...they [ford] offer the v6 at i4 prices... in doing that they can potentially pull people away from an honda or toyota i4 purchase because the ford will offer much better performance for a very minimal fe and refinement hit." no, the ford v6 does not perform "much better" than a honda i4. let's look at some numbers. msn autos (citing consumer reports): 2006 honda i4 - 2.4l (166hp) 5a 0-60 mph 7.91 1/4 mile 16.22 @ 90.8 mph 2007 ford v6 - 3.0l (221hp) 6a 0-60 mph 7.47 1/4 mile 15.78 @ 90.9 mph difference 0-60 mph 0.44 1/4 mile 0.44, 00.1 mph and remember, my honda 2.4l i4 (with manual trans) will take a 3.0 dt. i have tested this in the real world, when i found myself next to another young guy in a v6 mazda (automatic, just like the ford) at a stoplight. he wanted my lane when the light went green, but ended up merging over right *behind* me. i could hear that dt over my i4 the whole time...
i don't know for sure, but i believe that the mexican ford plant is not operating at capacity and nor has it ever - a condition that is good for ford in the sense that it keeps supply down and demand up as high as possible. my understanding is that it is. ford sold roughly 220,000 cars from that plant by 12/06. capacity is 305,000 according to ford's site so they probably are at or very near capacity to keep up with demand. since the lincoln changed to the lincoln and the ford added awd sales have been up even more so far this year. conversely, i've seen that sonota sales are tanking. i've seen nothing official on that so i could be wrong. i think the price, with lower than average ford incentives, is getting people in the showroom door right now and it's only a matter of time before word spreads. if that goes well then they may be on to something and nothing will help that more than some little tweaks to the drivetrain and content to keep things going.
yeah right is right and all you need to do is think about it. your $5 grand is for the most part false savings because what that car you bought so cheap is worth a few years down the road will always be based on what they cost to buy new. resale values have the biggest influence on what it costs most of us to actually own a car. the honda in this group, which generally are bought within 2 grand or so of sticker, have the highest resale values and also tend to do very well in cost of operation numbers. also the reason why heavily discounted cars tend to to very well in things like 'initial satisfaction indexes' - getting that big discount up front does have a tendency to make us all feel more satisfied because we all feel at that point that we got somethin' for nothin'.
the ford may prove to be the greatest discovery since adam figured out what was under those fig leaves - we won't know for another few years. remember that the lincoln did get the new 3.5 and therefore does not suffer from the same maladies as the ford/mercury/6. hyundai which had been very aggressive in an attempt to get as many of us in their cars as possible - pulled back their horns a bit apparently recognizing that it does them no good to sell the hyundai too cheaply. this recent awd craze is interesting to me - would think that maybe 90% of us don't drive on roads bad enough that just fwd isn't just fine, so why pay the added cost, mechanical complexities, and fe penalties for it?
i think your numbers are off. c&d tends to do crazy things to cars for their 0-60 times while cr does not. c&d could only get low 8s out of their 2007 honda i4 atx. see here . the only 0-60 time i could find on the ford with atx from c&d was an estimate of 7.5 seconds so that one looks to be about right. iirc mt did 7.2 seconds in a ford v6. i realize all these times we've posted were not done by the same drivers, on the same track, and under the same conditions but it's all we have right now as far as an apples to apples comparison goes. do you have the link to that 0-60 time for the honda i4? i'm not saying you're wrong, but that sounds more like the manual tranny time.
no, the ford v6 does not perform "much better" than a honda i4. thanks for looking up the numbers, kind of fortifies my point. going a step further, which car do you suppose feels and sounds better doing it. not to mention the 4 or 5 mpg difference in fe, which to many buyers in this class is more important to them than even that? not my personal cup of tea, but you surely can't fault anybody for buying something capable of 30mpg overall, in what not too long ago was a full sized car!
the ford may prove to be the greatest discovery since adam figured out what was under those fig leaves - we won't know for another few years. let's not get too carried away now! i even wouldn't buy one for lack of a v6 and manual tranny combo. but that's not common. remember that the lincoln did get the new 3.5 and therefore does not suffer from the same maladies as the ford/mercury/6. i don't know that i'd call them maladies but if for lack of a better word. my dad has a lincoln, i've driven it, and it has plenty of power for the large hills around here which is all i ask. the 3.5l is up my alley too, as more power always is for said hills, but it is completely unnecessary for the average joe imo. it surely helps sales though. this recent awd craze is interesting to me - would think that maybe 90% of us don't drive on roads bad enough that just fwd isn't just fine, so why pay the added cost, mechanical complexities, and fe penalties for it? living in the ne i do want it. however i also drive a rwd sports coupe through the same snow without problems so i see your point. maybe with all this power being sent to the front wheels now people are beginning to notice torque steer and wheel spin and don't like it? awd corrects both of those problems and gives some people something to one-up the joneses with. :p
see post 795. i don't think his numbers were right for the honda. if c&ds time is more accurate then my point with the new ford motor makes even more sense. you get performance that falls between the v6 and i4 versions of the competition for the price of the latter. if they can get the fe close or the same as the i4s then what's not to like? no it's not everyone's cup of tea as you said previously but it could be a very smart move. smarter than just giving in to pressure and dumping the 3.5l in the ford's engine bay.
/ot but....the naturally aspirated 3.2l in the bmw produced 333 hp.
ah - you beat me to it. 300hp with a direct injection design and vvt should be doable out of a 3.0l inline engine. compression might be a bit high, but well within reasonable limits.
actually, the 2.4l engine in the hyundai and kia is not the gema engine (known as the world engine by dcx), and the factory in which it is produced is not part of gema. it's the theta engine, which shares its basic block and cylinder head design with the gema engine, but there are major differences between the theta and the world engine. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/hyundai_theta_engine the 3.3l v6 in the hyundai (and the 3.8l in the hyundai) is known as the lambda. it is not a gema engine, but it is a new design from hyundai, not a warmed-over mitsubishi design. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/hyundai_lambda_engine
your $5 grand is for the most part false savings because what that car you bought so cheap is worth a few years down the road will always be based on what they cost to buy new. no, it's not false savings, it's real money in my pocket. dollars that i got to keep while buying the car that i wanted to buy. if you look at depreciation in actual dollars, rather than percentages, there is not much difference between honda, mazda, or ford. if you paid $20k and you car is worth $12k in 5 years that not better than paying $16k and having my car be worth $8k. not that i care much, in any case, as i buy cars to keep them. my $5000 is also earning about $200 per year interest, after taxes. in five years that is another $1000 "saved".
if c&ds time is more accurate car and driver seems to be the kings of car abuse and will regulary report acceleration times (especially 0-60) that is substantially better than any of us would want to even try to achieve - probably because we paid good money for that car? cr, i think, does things more like what you and i might infrequently try and therefore those differences more realistic. may be giving into pressure as you suggest, but a 260hp ford with a higher degree of engine refinement would sell like hotcakes and you are right, these better v6s do not necessarily cost much more at the pumps. the fe that is possible out of the toyota 2gr a good example of that.
nah, c&d just holds it in 2nd gear until it hits the rev limiter. makes for nice 0-60 times, considering most automatics have mile high gearing.
think about it on whatever basis you wish then, and pretend that the average that most of us keep cars is not between 3 and 4 years. of course, if you keep your mazda to the point that the paint is peeling off and the wheels are falling off, then you probably will save all that money that you think you did. most of us don't do that, however, and do have to deal with those crooked used car depts. at trade-in time, and mysteriously that honda buyer is getting at least a good portion of his $5k purchase premium back, a little kbb.com research as well as edmunds/intellichoice cost to own numbers all confirm this.
we'll never agree on the 0-60 acceleration numbers. however, i can say that from personal experience actually driving the cars and from participating in a few "stoplight showdowns," that the honda i4 5m is every bit as fast as the ford v6 6a and the automatic honda isn't too far behind. certainly, you can't state that the dt30 is "much faster" than the honda or nissan inline 4's. i like the ford, it was on my "short list" at purchase time and i heavily evaluated it. it is a competitive car which keeps looking better as ford adds standard features, and the reliability reports are looking good. resale value remains to be seen. however, the ford will absolutely require very substantial powertrain updates to remain competitive, especially with the new honda just around the corner. i really hope ford doesn't ignore it as long as they have ignored the ford. that is a perfect example of a car that could have been a serious contender if it had been continuously developed and refined through the years instead of remaining basically the same. i don't think the duratec is going to cut it.
and the ford added awd sales have been up even more so far this year. ford sales are still at the bottom of the barrel, and by a big margin. its not that impressive to have a 205 sales increase when you only sold 45,000 the year before. here's some numbers for you: rounded and year to date toyota toyota: 144,000 honda honda: 121,000 chevrolet chevrolet: 108,000 nissan nissan: 90,000 ford ford: 51,000
thanks for posting about comparing real dollars rather the per cent ages, which can be quite misleading. i just checked edmund's true cost to own stats and saw that it lists the tmv price for a 2007 hyundai se w/xm @ $20,706. we bought one on 2/24/07 at a purchase price of $16,651. (both figures need to have dealer fees + ttl added; our dealer fees were $189.) knock $4,055 off that tco estimate and you'll see quite a difference. the financing, insurance and tax info. are also off the mark. if you finance $5,000 and i finance $10,000, my finance charges will obviously be more than double your finance charges. in ct, owners (or lesees) pay a property tax every year on their cars. the tax rate varies from town to town. my town's current tax rate is $21.65 for every $1,000 of the cars value. one town next door has a tax rate of (about) $62 for every $1,000 of value. another bordering town has a tax rate of $17.89 for each $1,000 of value. (this also means that a car which has a lower "value" pays less property tax each year.) insurance: forget what tco says. how old are you, married or single, your driving record, what town do you live in, how do you use your car (not driven to work, driven to work how many miles?, business use), do you own or rent, do you have other insurance with the same company, have you been continuously insured for the last six months, fico scores, etc. tco and other similar estimates need to start off their comparison with real street prices, not an inflated number. but, your point about the $20k car being worth $12k in 5 yrs vs a $16k car being worth $8k in 5 yrs is valid. i don't pay my bills based upon per cent ages. the mortgage company, utilities, insurance company, etc. want real dollars, not per cent ages.
the ford is somewhat limited by manufacturing capacity. i think it shares the line with mercury and lincoln. i drive by a chevrolet dealership every day. those impalas are starting to appeal to me.
car and driver seems to be the kings of car abuse and will regulary report acceleration times (especially 0-60) that is substantially better than any of us would want to even try to achieve - probably because we paid good money for that car? cr, i think, does things more like what you and i might infrequently try and therefore those differences more realistic. that's what i said. but yet someone posted a much better 0-60 time for an honda i4 with auto tranny. doesn't make sense at all.
however, i can say that from personal experience actually driving the cars and from participating in a few "stoplight showdowns," that the honda i4 5m is every bit as fast as the ford v6 6a and the automatic honda isn't too far behind. certainly, you can't state that the dt30 is "much faster" than the honda or nissan inline 4's. your personal experience with the 5m in the honda doesn't really matter when we're comparing auto trannies. what you posted in #791 is directly below: 2006 honda i4 - 2.4l (166hp) 5a 0-60 mph 7.91 1/4 mile 16.22 90.8 mph 2007 ford v6 - 3.0l (221hp) 6a 0-60 mph 7.47 1/4 mile 15.78 90.9 mph difference 0-60 mph 0.44 1/4 mile 0.44, 00.1 mph that 0-60 time you posted is not right according to c&d whom we all can agree tends to really push a car to get times you and i would never dream of trying to get. since they did publish a time, as i linked you to, of low 8s we have to assume that the honda i4 5a is "much" slower than the v6 ford 6a. if you don't agree then don't ever think of saying the v6 honda is "much" faster than the v6 ford because the difference in number of seconds off the pace for each comparo is negligible. i don't think the duratec is going to cut it. i agree. not for the long term it won't anyway. i think i did point out that the next gen ford will get the duratec35 somewhere near 2010 for 2011 iirc. updating the ford, whether it be content or powertrain, each year is a good thing that i hope we can all agree on. that seems to be the trend so far.
mysteriously that honda buyer is getting at least a good portion of his $5k purchase premium back says captain funny you admit that you won't get all of that $5k back. and it stands to reason that you won't; a used car is still a used car and when it a buyer is comparing to new car prices used cars will always depreciate a lot. so if you want to pretend you're getting a car that's worth 5k more because you don't like the engine note of a car when i bet 99% of the time you're listening to the stereo and not the sound of the engine, more power to you. in the end, i think in the mazda 6, the duratec sounds great. it has a nice growl to it that confirms that your intentions are being matched by the car. as automotive.com wrote about the mazda 6 v6, "the 3.0-liter v6 in the 6s greatly increases the fun. like the four-cylinder, it has continuously variable valve timing (vvt) for its intake camshaft; but on the v6, this feature seems to be used more effectively, providing better low-down torque along with a willingness to rev, with good gas mileage and a nice set of sounds from the air intake and the dual exhausts. the mazda v6 doesn't feel like it has as much low-rpm torque as the toyota and honda v6 engines, but it loves to rev and it's a lot of fun to drive." of course i would have been willing to pay extra for a car that braked 15 feet shorter in 60-0, or a car that had less body lean when cornering, or even for a car that was less generically styled. thing is, though, i didn't have to pay more and in fact spent thousands less. and during the time i have this car, i will enjoy every curve, make thanks for great brakes everytime someone pulls out of a driveway in my path, and i will walk up to my car with pride instead of wondering which of 10 other simialar cars in the parking lot is mine as i load a big screen into my car while the other sedan owners make a second trip or pay for delivery.
ford sales are still at the bottom of the barrel, and by a big margin. its not that impressive to have a 205 sales increase when you only sold 45,000 the year before. here's some numbers for you: rounded and year to date i don't recall ever saying ford sales were at or near the top. did i? i know the sales numbers and already told you that the ford and it's sisters only sell about 220k units per year which is about half of the number of camcords (each) sold each year. my point was that ford sales keep climbing and that is true. ford sales are actually at 52,000 units this ytd as of 4/30/2007. that's a 22.4% increase over the previous year. why didn't you include the hyundai? it's sales are down 31% from last year at this time. see a trend? also, ford sales to fleets are pretty low according to ford and hyundai just made some news about selling in high volumes to fleets iirc.
of course i would have been willing to pay extra for a car that braked 15 feet shorter in 60-0 that was one thing i really loved about that car when i had it. the brakes were nothing short of phenomenal.
the hermi plant is running at capacity. don't forget they also make the mercury/lincoln there too. and yes, ford is selling ford/milans/lincoln's at a nice pace. i would much rather have ford not try to make 500,000 ford and keep the quality up on these vehicles. so far the ford/mercury/lincoln are proving to be very reliabile and well built vehicles.
of course you take the numbers that best suit your needs. i too have done "real world" testing with my ford v6 and your dreaming my friend. i easily outran both a auto 4cyl honda and a manual honda on i-205. this guy had a brand new honda and he was ticked when i started to actually play with him. i would let him catch up to me, get about even with me then wammo.. i was gone! there are reviews showing the ford does 0-60 in 7.1 seconds by the way out on the internet.. take a look around... :shades:
i'm right with you man. i did price an honda with the same options as my ford and it was easily $3,000+ more. not to include the 4.9% interest i would be paying over the lifetime of the loan! i pay 0% on the ford. i came out way, way ahead with my ford. trying to convince people honda are either cheaper or within $1,000 of either a ford or hyundai is not going to work. anyone who shops knows the honda/toyota are pricey vehicles. this is what the ford/mercury offer, value at the right price. remember when honda/toyota did that? :surprise:
"the fe that is possible out of the toyota 2gr a good example of that." are you so sure about that? get out on the net people are complaining about the mpg of the v6 toyota. i also posted a link to a site that did independant studies of mpg on the toyota back in this forum. and the actual mileage they were getting was about 4mpg less for the toyota..
i guess since mcdonalds sells more hamburgers than wendys that they must be the best too..
ford is going in the right direction. they are building a solid, quality car for less than their competitors. it will take time and miles and word of mouth before the general public figure this one out. i like the duratec 3.0 with vvt. mine revs freely and i like the growling sound myself. at idle i can't even tell its running. and in everyday driving its just as quiet as the honda/toyota. someone posted actual db ratings way back in this forum. granted when you put the pedal down, the ford is a bit louder than the toyota/honda. but in everyday driving it is just as quiet.
it's actually the other way around on the hyundai... hma is selling fewer of them to fleets than last year, which accounts for at least some of the downturn in sales.
also, ford sales to fleets are pretty low according to ford and hyundai just made some news about selling in high volumes to fleets iirc. wrong on both counts. ford fleets are actually going up as we speak, while hyundai's hyundai fleet initiative ended q4 last year (a program lasted almost a year from early 06). hyundai sales will be down for the rest of this year because the majority of 06 included additional fleet units, which otherwise would not have skewed the yoy comparison.
whhaaaaaaaaaaat? the hyundai motor dates back to mitsubishi designs from the 80s. they added variable valve timing, just like ford did in the jag with the dt (although why they didn't do it in the ford/mazda i don't know) the 4 cylinder is all new, but its a gema motor, so its in hyyndai, mitsubishi, dcx, and others. time to get better informed here. just to summarize from other posts and add some add'l info: hyundai's new lambda v6s (3.3l & 3.8l) currently can be found in various hyundai and kia applications, including the hyundai. competent engines and flexible, as the lambdas can be tuned to as high as 300hp (which is a likely candidate on the base engine of the upcoming luxury rwd sedan next year). the theta i4s also can be found in many hyundai and kia applications, including the hyundai. don't be confused, these are not the same as the gema engines. hyundai is, however, receiving royalties for these i4s. bottom line, both the i4s and the v6s are designed in-house by hyundai.
i think it was nov.,'06 that hyundai drastically cut its fleet sales. that probably accounted for most of the hyundai sales reduction, if not 100% of it, during a time of declining auto sales for the industry.
whhaaaaaaaaaaat? the hyundai motor dates back to mitsubishi designs from the 80s. they added variable valve timing, just like ford did in the jag with the dt (although why they didn't do it in the ford/mazda i don't know) it should also be known that the mazda 6 has vvt. from automobile.com, "like the four-cylinder, it has continuously variable valve timing (vvt) for its intake camshaft; but on the v6, this feature seems to be used more effectively, providing better low-down torque along with a willingness to rev, with good gas mileage and a nice set of sounds from the air intake and the dual exhausts..." "zoom-zoom is in plentiful supply regardless of which model you choose. even the four-cylinder mazda is a hoot to drive. order it with the five-speed manual and the fun zone starts at about 4000 rpm, where the engine is very responsive. the 2.3-liter, double-overhead-cam engine loves to rev and acceleration is on par with that of other four-cylinder mid-size sedans...."
next generation rwd hyundai (known as bk) will be getting turbocharged theta i4 220-250 hp and 3.8 lamda 300+ hp. http://www.bobaedream.co.kr/board/bbs/news_view.php?code=nnews&no=22492
hmm...totally forgot about the 3.2l i6 in the bmw. thanks for reminding me that, guys. isn't that right the 3.2l i6 was so expensive to make and its compression ratio was so high that it is just not feasible for mess-manufactured cars? great for a halo car like bmw, however. btw, what's the torque of that 3.2l i6? i'll take the 3.0l i6 (naturally aspirated version) on a 2800 lbs sedan any given day...
isn't that right the 3.2l i6 was so expensive to make and its compression ratio was so high that it is just not feasible for mess-manufactured cars? great for a halo car like bmw, however. no. it was a halo engine manufactured for just one application however.
i investigated the claim that cars with higher initial prices, such as honda, cost less than lower priced alternative mid-size cars, when trade-in value is considered. since my recent purchase was a mazda, i compared this to honda honda. i bought my sve for $16,100 and at the time i estimated, based on invoice less a $750 incentive that an honda would have cost me $3300 more. i think that i got a better than average price, if so, perhaps a more typical price difference may have been about $2500. then i looked at the price of a comparably equipped 2003 used mazda vs. 2003 honda honda chrysler. the price difference with 60,000 miles ranged from $1400 to $1900, depending on condition and whether looking at private party sale or trade in. for average condition, trade-in difference was about $1500. with the assumption that a buyer would on average pay about $2500 less for the mazda, this still leaves an average net advantage of $1000 for the mazda. now, in any financial analysis, the time value of money should not be neglected. today i can earn about 3.8% in a tax exempt money market account. $2500 invested at that rate, for 4 years will be worth $2800, so this increases the advatage of the cheaper car to $1300. the advantage would increase to more like $1800 for one who must finance the purchase at 7% interest. of course, there is a lot of estimating and gueswork involved in this, but i certainly see no evidence that an honda costs less when trade-in is considered. the honda might cost about the same, at best, for some buyers...but this is certainly no reason to fear cars like the mazda, ford, hyundai, etc.
wrong on both counts. ford fleets are actually going up as we speak, while hyundai's hyundai fleet initiative ended q4 last year (a program lasted almost a year from early 06). hyundai sales will be down for the rest of this year because the majority of 06 included additional fleet units, which otherwise would not have skewed the yoy comparison so do you have some links for all of us to see then? instead of just telling people they are wrong and being done with it, how about you pass on some of your infinite wisdom? :shades: i've read the opposite, albeit some time ago, and want to see the latest figures too.
here's an excerpt from a hyundai press release that mentions the reduction in fleet sales: hyundai reports november sales fountain valley, calif., 12/01/2006 hyundai motor america sold 28,417 units during the month of november, down 14.9 percent compared with november 2005. &#147;sales declined in november due to our strategy to reduce fleet sales in 2006 as well as the reduced availability of our new hyundai due to continued effects of the strike earlier this year. improving availability of new models such as the hyundai and hyundai fe will help our year-end close on a very strong note. we are very encouraged by the sales of our new hyundai fe, which experienced a 52 percent increase in sales over last year,&#148; said mark barnes, vice president, national sales, hyundai motor america said. good enough for you?
good enough for you? not really. it's from 5 months ago. if you read the latest sales news from ford, a quick search will take you to several of them, they are reporting that fleet sales are down 5% for either the year or the month of april, i can't remember which it is. how then can one state that ford fleet sales are climbing when the supposed hyundai fleet reductios are being based on a 5 month old statement that groups the manufacturers total fleet sales together? based on news that's only days old we can say that ford fleet sales are falling i guess? see where i'm going? i know the hyundai is a great car, don't get me wrong. but if the american manufacturers start producing great cars, such as the ford, someone else is going to lose some sales. looks like hyundai might be the first victim imo.
never said that the honda costs less - only that at least a good portion of the initial price difference is recovered at trade in time, that 'false savings' i mentioned. intellichoice 5 year cost of ownership is $2000 less for a 07 honda chrysler vs. the 6s, but i rather suspect they are assumming a higher initial purchase price (for the 6) than what your actual experience was. from intellichoice's perspective, they would have no way to forecast how much money ford needs to discount to sell the 6 (or the ford). in any case, total cost of ownership which obviously plays on resale values very heavily is every bit as important in evaluating a purchase as initial purchase price which may turn out to mean very little. cheap now will almost always equal cheap later, and the reverse is also true. lease rates tend to be indicative of what a car actually costs to own simply because new and residual values are both considered and assumes cars are both returned in excellent and low mileage conditions. don't have any numbers in front of me, but i might be willing to bet you lunch that the honda (or toyota) would have about the same lease payment on let's say a 3 year deal as would the 6, the ford or the hyundai.
i am very very sure of that - i own one in the slightly larger and heavier toyota now 50k miles old . and you can cruise any forum you would like and find folks that can't match epa numbers, especially on the honda side, on any car. in my case my 22/31 epa turns into an honest 27 mpg overall. my wifes nissan 3.5 i think was rated at 18/27 and she ends up right at 25-26 overall although her hwy percentage is high, she is a little gentler than i on the accelerator, and the land down here in texas is about as flat as those epa laboratory floors. which is the bottom line, if you really do spend much time in honda gridlock and also enjoy mashing the accelerator on these wonderful new v6s, you will pay a price - this applies even to the 4 bangers. i would estimate that for the average driver in normal conditions the net cost between the 4 banger and v6 is likely going to be in the 3-4 mpg range overall and roughly correspondent to the epa rating differences - meaning that those driver that can't get close to epa numbers on the v6 won't on the 4 banger either! on the toyota specifically this translates into less than $20 a month assuming 1000 miles at $3 a gallon. well worth it, imo, if for no other reason than a 'grins' factor
&#147;the numbers are wrong&#148; ok, to make sure we&#146;re on the same page, i&#146;ll take the ford v6 0-60 number from mt, and we&#146;ll look at c&d for the rest. ford v6 6a &#150; 7.2 sec, 21/29 mpg (mt) nissan i4 6m &#150; 7.2 sec, 24/31 mpg (c&d) nissan i4 cvt &#150; 7.4 sec, 23/29 mpg (c&d) honda i4 5m &#150; 7.5 sec, 26/34 mpg (c&d) honda i4 5a &#150; 8.1 sec, 24/34 mpg (c&d) ford i4 5m &#150; 8.1 sec, 23/31 mpg (c&d) ford i4 5a &#150; 8.8 sec, 23/30 mpg (est.) &#147;your personal experience with the 5m in the honda doesn't really matter when we're comparing auto trannies.&#148; why can&#146;t we compare an i4 5m honda with the v6 6a ford? look at the numbers, ford is very close to the import 4's. the manual-equipped honda i4 is closer to the v6 auto ford (0.3 seconds) than it is to the manual-equipped ford i4 (0.6 seconds). the ford v6 isn&#146;t available in a manual, and can&#146;t really be compared with other v6s as the automatic v6 versions of honda, toyota and nissan are quicker by at least 0.6 seconds. it appears to me that the ford v6 is a very close match to the nissan 4 with either the 6-speed or the cvt and the manual honda. the point was made that the v6 ford is considerably faster than competing 4-cylinders, and as the honda 5m and nissan 6m and cvt show, that's just not the case. also, look at the ford 6a versus honda 5m mileage penalty: 5 honda and 5 highway! those are epa numbers, not even taking into account edmund&#146;s forums posts of poor honda mileage in late-model dt30s and posts of higher mpg in honda i4&#146;s (my honda average has been 28-29, and i don&#146;t drive lightly). so, it looks like choosing the v6 ford with the only available transmission (the 6a) over an i4 honda with the 5m gives a less than 5% improvement in performance? but reduces fuel economy about 20%! at 15,000 miles per year, assuming gas stayes at $3, thats over $400 difference, or about $35 per month. that's if gas stays at $3 per gallon...
that could very well be. with aggressive discounting by ford/mercury dealers on the ford and mercury (e.g. i recently saw a mercury advertised for under $15k) and the new, improved iihs test scores for the fulan plus positive reliability data from cr, they could very well be taking sales from the hyundai. many people will choose an american brand over a foreign brand (especially one with a dearth of brand equity like hyundai) without even trying the alternatives. also there are ford dealers in most small towns in the u.s.--not so with hyundai dealers. for $15k, i would be very tempted to get a mercury over a hyundai if i were buying a mid-sized car right how.
what you "said" was: it is not generally good for...the car buyer...that they have to discount heavily. what is the intent of this, if not to imply that the cheaper car actually costs more? i've looked at intellichoice before and their data is just garbage...and not just based on my deal. they are more than $2300 too high on the initial price of the mazda. there has been $2000 in rebates available for at least 6 months, yet they have a "target" price of about $300 above invoice. this model can be bought effortlessly at invoice less rebates all day long. that site also can not account for the value of things like 0% financing that has been available from time-to-time on the ford. based on looking at edmunds predicted resale values for the 6 and honda, i agree that on a 3 year lease the net cost is probably nearly the same. i'd assume the hyundai and ford would be similar as well. at more than 3 years, though, i think the lower initial cost models would have lower net cost. my point is the higher resale value is not going to offset the higher initial cost. therefore resale value should end up being non-issue for most.
why can&#146;t we compare an i4 5m honda with the v6 6a ford? because you and i were originally comparing auto trannies. you threw a manual tranny honda time in there saying it was for the 5a and it was way off. i'm also taking price into consideration. the v6 ford is more in line with an honda i4 5a than the 5m when comparing an chrysler honda to an se ford. i'm leaving the honda value package out of the mix because it is more or less a "stripper" model. i get your point about the honda 5m but the fact is, many more buy the atx. i would buy the 5m and you would buy the 5m but when i address a broader audience, like that on these forums, i like to stick with what i think the norm is. so yes the performance hit isn't all that much with the honda 5m but, given price to performance as the criteria, i can't see too many people cross shopping that with the v6 ford since it comes only in atx flavor. i also never like using numbers from different sources because there are too many variables that are different and can affect those numbers in big ways. so, if you average out the different times reported from different sources for the ford you get about 7.3 or 7.4 seconds. agreed? that's nearly 1 second faster than the honda which is "much faster" in my book. i get fools trying to race my ford all the time so i am an expert in this field. :p
just discovered this: http://www.edmunds.com/apps/calc/calculatorcontroller using their default values the honda, mazda, hyundai and ford 36 mo. lease rates are all pretty close for the comparable versions i looked at. they are within about $5 per month of each other. however, using what i think is a more realistic initial price difference of $2500 between mazda and honda, the 6 came out about $50 per month less for the 4 cylinder versions that i compared...honda se vs. mazda sve. i also used 10,000 miles per year rather than the 15k default.
the calculator doesn't take into account special lease deals. for example, right now there's a $199/month special (i believe nationwide) on both the honda chrysler and hyundai gls. i've seen $199/month or a little less with no money down advertised locally on the hyundai gls. the calculator says the lease on the hyundai is $389/month. quite a difference.
let's agree to disagree. from a dead stop, a manual 4-cyl honda will hold its own against an auto v6 ford. they are close enough that it would come down to a match between the average drivers. in my experience from driving both cars, it is easier to get a good launch in my honda manual than the ford 6a because in the automatic it was harder to get the perfect launch with just the right amount of wheelspin, without abusing the car. with the v6 auto it was either too much gas or not enough; manuals are easier in my opinion. interstate races are much harder to judge. did you account for reaction time, and how do you know what gear the manual honda was pulling, etc.? here, automatics have an advantage for the average driver. example, if you pull up next to me cruising 55mph on the interstate and floor it, your car will likely grab second gear at high rpm for a breif burst of acceleration, while i'll hesitate to shift all the way down to second at that speed and fall behind. baggs, the 7.9 second 0-60 time for the honda i4 5a was posted on msn autos which frequently cites consumer reports. i agree, it is unusual for cr to get a better 0-60 time than c&d, but we are only talking about 0.2 seconds difference and that could have been testing conditions. maybe c&d tested in ca at 75 degrees and cr tested in ma at 50 degrees. the 7.9 versus 8.1 second difference is minor, but i still took the slower c&d time instead. besides, i'll bet than when the new honda 4-cylinder automatic is introduced later this year, it'll run numbers similiar to the nissan, and both of them will be breathing down the ford's neck. with four cylinders! and, any improvements to the ford appear to be pretty far off. but as i've said before, they are both good cars, i almost bought the ford.
i've seen that honda deal, but i think there is money required upfront??? i think the hyundai one, otoh, may be a "sign and drive"??? i'm not a leaser, so don't know how those things really work, but i think the calculator maybe rolls eveything into the monthly payment??? doubt that is enough to account for $190 per month difference, though.
hyundai's new lambda v6s (3.3l & 3.8l) currently can be found in various hyundai and kia applications, including the hyundai. competent engines and flexible, as the lambdas can be tuned to as high as 300hp (which is a likely candidate on the base engine of the upcoming luxury rwd sedan next year). i sit corrected, the source i was using made the architecture look very similar. the theta i4s also can be found in many hyundai and kia applications, including the hyundai. don't be confused, these are not the same as the gema engines. hyundai is, however, receiving royalties for these i4s. so hyundai has 2 2.4 liter 4 cylinder motors?
did you read the links i posted earlier? hyundai's theta engine, used in the hyundai and kia, is partly based on but not the same as the gema engine used by dcx et. al.
did you read the links i posted earlier? hyundai's theta engine, used in the hyundai and kia, is partly based on but not the same as the gema engine used by dcx et. al. yeah i think i am confused because the gema sites say it was jointly developed, and on here it sounds like hyundai made it and everyone is buying it from them.
you are not the first one to be confused by marketing hype vs. reality. hyundai didn't make it; there is common technology, designed by hyundai, which all the gema partners can use, and add their own tweaks to. an interesting fact from the article posted earlier is that the hyundai theta engine plant isn't even part of gema, but the theta engine does use block and intake technology from the gema project.
what is the intent of this, if not to imply that the cheaper car actually costs more? there is no intent or even any implication - simply that any car that is generally sold at big discounts will, in fact, have a lesser resale value down the road. that is not good for the buyer only in that it reduces how much he/she might recover for the vehicle at trade-in time. it has nothing to do with ford/6s/hyundai or anything in particular, just a simple statement saying that cheaper up front generally equals cheaper later. it is no secret that honda and toyota are hard to deal with especially if you are expecting 'detroit' style discounts, but it is largely the reason why those cars tend to have high resale values - they cost more because they don't negotiate much. the guy that really gets screwed is that guy that goes out and buys a car when it first comes out, pays something closer to sticker, only to see the mfgr. rebate or finance at 0% in some sort of eoy clearance sale thereby making that car thousands less than what he paid. resale value should be a primary issue for any car buyer under the proviso that he/she is not likely to keep a car more than about 3 or 5 years. resale value starts becomings a non-issue once that car accumulated a bunch of miles and more age than that. and yes there are a number of examples where a cheaper car at purchase can and does really cost more - all depending on those kinds of things. my point thru this whole thread is that folks all the time point to a car that let's say costs them $3300.00 less new than brand x or brand y, and then think they have actually saved all that money - to which i say 'well, yes you did, and no, you didn't.' and you are absolutely right, higher resale values will generally not offset the higher initial price (unless you bought a hybrid) and for whatever that real difference ends up being than that is really what it costs you to drive that honda instead of something else - plus, of course, the time value of the extra money you had to borrow.
when comparing costs also take into account insurance and fuel. i comared a mazda 6 to an honda. the honda was more expensive, but it saves $10 per month in gas and $10 per month for insurance. i bought the honda, but if there was a 6 wagon with the 2.3 liter 4 i would have bought that. love wagons.
"the guy that really gets screwed is that guy that goes out and buys a car when it first comes out, pays something closer to sticker, only to see the mfgr. rebate or finance at 0% in some sort of eoy clearance sale thereby making that car thousands less than what he paid." that is one of the things that steered me from the ford to the honda. when i saw that i could get an honda for under invoice, i was pretty confident that was the rock-bottom price; it was as good as i would be able to get on an honda. the new honda will be out in a few months, the 07s will be gone, and we likely will not see such pricing on honda again until the end of the next generations life cycle. there is very little chance that in a few years my resale value will be less because honda will be selling them much cheaper. the ford had a larger discount, but there was no gaurantee that the deal i was seeing would not have been eclipsed by some larger rebates, or 0% financing, plus a free dell computer, and ipod, or who knows what else they'll come up with to sell the things, and like captain said it'll drive the resale down faster. that happened to me when i bought my last ford, but i didn't even pay anywhere near sticker! i thought i had a screamin' deal on my hands... paid invoice, less rebates, and got zero percent. the next year, the rebates doubled, zero percent financing was back, they had lowered the msrp and the invoice, and ford had made standard some things which i had paid extra for. guess what happened to my resale value?
resale value should be a primary issue for any car buyer under the proviso that he/she is not likely to keep a car more than about 3 or 5 years. that is where you lose me. honestly, i am trying to understand why you think resale value is so all important. if the net cost is less for the cheaper car or even if it is about the same, why buy something you don't really want, just because the resale value is higher? for example, if after considering everything, excluding price and resale value, one likes the ford better than the honda, why buy the honda?
resale value is unknown. there are three distinct possibilities: scenario one: the ford continues to sell well for the next 5+ years, without having increased rebates or fleet sales. also, the long term reliability proves to be on par with honda (or honda reliability falters). in this case, the ford will resale favorably compared to the honda, and since it was less costly to purchase, will prove to be the better value. in the end, it really will cost more to drive a honda, and the "japanese myth" theory is confirmed. scenario two: the ford continues to sell fairly well for the next 5+ years, with minimal rebates and fleet sales. long term reliability is not too far behind honda. the difference in resale vales between the two cars will be roughly equal to the difference in their purchase prices when new, taking the time value of money into effect, making the resale issue a wash. no car is the better value than the other. scenario three: (just another scenario) the ford doesn't continue to sell as well through the next 5+ years; maybe ford doesn't update it enough, maybe the competition makes great leaps and bounds. in response to lower sales ford increases rebates, and/or sells to fleets. or, the long term reliability isn't as good as honda. the steep discounts on the future new ford, the older ford having reliability issues as they age, and used ford being dumped on the market at low prices, or any combination of those, come together to make a used ford worth considerably less than a similiar honda. in that theoretical scenario, the resale difference between a ford and a honda would be more than the difference in purchase price, making the honda a better value. like my last ford, the costs of owning the ford would be much greater than the costs of owning a competitor. again, no one knows about future resale around or after 3-5 years from now.
no one knows about future resale around or after 3-5 years from now absolutely true - but what we do have is about 15 or 20 years of established history whether that be ford's history or honda's. resale values as used in those 'cost of ownership' studies are only estimates, even those residual values that are used to calculate lease costs are 'estimates' on the lessors part. tomorrow we might have the greatest en masse sequence of engine failures ever known to mankind, with every honda 4 banger blowing head gaskets simultaneuously. at that point, those particular cars will certainly have resale value problems, wouldn't they? and every unfortunate honda owner that happened to invest 20k or so of their hard earned money would experience a helluva financial loss, because now this car that they thought they could sell used for let's say 10k is now only worth half of that. kind of reminds me of gms dubious flirtation with diesels back in the first energy (gas price) crisis. those engines darn near did all blow up simultaneously, and just like magic those resale values went into the dumper.
why buy something you don't really want and all truths are self evident - you should never buy anything that you don't really want.
kind of reminds me of gms dubious flirtation with diesels back in the first energy (gas price) crisis. those engines darn near did all blow up simultaneously, and just like magic those resale values went into the dumper. the point being it was a crummy diesel, not that diesels are crummy. mercedes and volkswagen diesels have exceptionally high resale values, even still. as honda and nissan roll out their diesel mid-sized sedans, we will see who follows.
you're making this comment to someone who really believes that the diesel/biodiesel will supplant the gasoline engine within the next 5-10 years - and of course, anything that is obscenely economical and durable will have great resale values. that small block v8 diesel i was talking about, was a little worse than merely 'crummy; however.
unless money means nothing to you, it is a good premise to strongly consider resale value of a car, if, and only if, you plan to keep the car equal to or less than 3 to 5 years. however in my case, i keep a car at least 10 years, sometimes much longer. thus, resale value's importance is less of an important factor in the purchase decision. my three last new car purchases were kept 22 years, 13 years, and 11 years respectively.
why didn't you include the hyundai? it's sales are down 31% from last year at this time. see a trend? also, ford sales to fleets are pretty low according to ford and hyundai just made some news about selling in high volumes to fleets iirc. i just didn't feel like looking them up. perhaps its (probably) just me buying into an old sterotype, but i don't consider hyundai in the same leauge.
if you read the latest sales news from ford, a quick search will take you to several of them, they are reporting that fleet sales are down 5% for either the year or the month of april, i can't remember which it is. maybe you forgot ford removed ford fleet completely, so let's think about this logically. ford operated 100% of ford to fleet this time last year, and fleet sales yoy are only down by 5% even with the removal of ford fleet, you do the math. for a good part of 06, ford fleet led in ford car sales monthly, ran normally from 15-20k units/month.
resale value is unknown. there are three distinct possibilities: so true. one thing nobody has mentioned is the condition and mileage of the car. if you buy any car, put 45k miles a year on it, and trade it in after 3 years with 135k miles on it, you're going to seriously hurt the resale value. i don't car if its a honda, nissan, toyota, or bmw. you also have to consider the condition of the car. personally, if it knew i was going to be putting a lot of miles on a car, i'd buy a cheap as i could. but to me, the whole argument is moot. your going to pay more for an asian car. your going to pay more to buy it, pay more to maintain it, and pay more to fix it when it needs fixed. and if the dollar does't strenghen against the yen, your either going to pay even more, or the asian car companies will continue to see their profits decline.
unless money means nothing to you, it is a good premise to strongly consider resale value of a car, if, and only if, you plan to keep the car equal to or less than 3 to 5 years. however in my case, i keep a car at least 10 years, sometimes much longer. thus, resale value's importance is less of an important factor in the purchase decision. my three last new car purchases were kept 22 years, 13 years, and 11 years respectively. i think resale value is still important 10 or more years down the road. in 1992 the ford was the top rated car. i happened to buy a 92 honda. after 12 years, and 140k miles, i decided to sell it and buy a new honda. i sold the car in less than one hour for $1000 more than the kbb value ($5,000). do you think i would have gotten close to that much for a 92 ford? i don't think so. i also think an 07 honda will still be worth considerably more in ten years, than an 07 ford will be.
if you found somebody to pay 5000 (or 6000 if you're saying kbb was 5k) for a 12 year old car, consider yourself lucky. you found a moron who would have overpaid for anything.
"it is a good premise to strongly consider resale value of a car, if, and only if, you plan to keep the car equal to or less than 3 to 5 years" the key word is plan. things happen. say you buy a new car without considering resale value because you plan to drive it until the wheels fall off, but in the third year you accidentally total it. all of a sudden, resale value becomes very important. say your cars value as determined by the insurance company is $8,200 while a competeting car in the same shape would have brought $11,400. it becomes an important factor again. congratulations on keeping your cars for that long. you are a much wealthier person because of your restraint.
if you found somebody to pay 5000 (or 6000 if you're saying kbb was 5k) for a 12 year old car, consider yourself lucky. the kbb on the car was actually $3,800. i sold it for $5,000. you found a moron who would have overpaid for anything. no, he would not have paid that much for "anything". he knew exactly what he was looking for. he wanted a dependable car for his daughter to drive to college in. he got exactly that.
paying 6000 for a 12yr old car with 150,000 miles on it is just stupid. at least when talking about a mid size family sedan. 6000 will buy you something 1/2 as old with half the miles on it. just the idea of paying kbb, let alone 1 grand over it, would make me question anybodies intelligence. paying 1k over kbb is about the same as going to a dealership and offering to pay more than msrp. if i were you, i would have tried to sell this person everything i own. as p.t. barnum said, there's one born every second.
maybe you forgot ford removed ford fleet completely, so let's think about this logically. good point, and i did forget that. however my point was that the only proof i've seen so far of hyundai fleet sales being down is a 5-month old news article stating that all of hyundai fleet sales are down. if that's what we're going by here, and without real numbers yet, then according to the latest news ford fleet sales are down too. while typing this i found the link i was referring to. turns out the numbers i saw are from mid-2006. hyundai fleet sales were just over 50% and ford fleet sales were 18.8%. anyone know if the new numbers are actually closer now?
this just struck a(c)cord with me. my neighbor across the street had an honda that was in 3 major accidents. the first was when it was a few months old. based on what my neighbor told me, the insurance company wanted to total it, but he would not let them, so it got fixed. anyways, he put it out on the corner and some guy bought it for his daughter. when he was putting the plates on it, he gave me a look while i was mowing my lawn, like 'i got a deal'. i really wanted to say something, but i didn't. my point is, a lot of buyers of used cars don't have a clue.
"wrong on both counts. ford fleets are actually going up as we speak" please prove this. you can't because its not true. ford does sell some ford to fleets but its much, much lower than at the levels of the ford. this is all over the net. and what about the toyota fleet sales of the toyota??
paying 6000 for a 12yr old car with 150,000 miles on it is just stupid. who said $6,000? fact is, the car was well worth $5,000 and i would not have sold it for less. i still wonder if i made the right decision to sell it. the fact that i needed to have a truck, made selling the car a necessity.
"ford needs to discount to sell the 6 (or the ford). in any case," ever thought ford/hyundia just decided to sell a great car at a great value and maybe honda/toyota are taking you for a ride? "cheap now will almost always equal cheap later, and the reverse is also true" cheap in what way? or is this just because its a ford product? n
"from a dead stop, a manual 4-cyl honda will hold its own against an auto v6 ford." no, it won't.
"that is where you lose me. honestly, i am trying to understand why you think resale value is so all important." i agree. honda folks love to tought resale value. yet, they leave out the initial higher price paid, along with the higher interest over the lifetime of the loan.. cars are not an investment either... another thing here. resale on the internet is an average. real world is where resales come in. i had a 2000 honda chrysler and 3 dealerships wouldn't give me more than 10,000 in 2004 for it! perception to the public is also key on resale value. it has been bashed into our heads that honda/toyota are so much more reliable and they are "worth it". in my experience they are not. the internet has all kinds of information about reliability data. get out and take a look. you will be surprised. :surprise:
according to the 12/1/06 statement pasted in #831, hyundai started curtailing fleet sales dramatically in 11/06. if they established a new policy in november, they would not keep issuing the same press release month after month. while such monthly press releases wouldn't be a "5 month old new article",they would certainly be "old news." hyundai added xm radio to hyundai's built in late 2006. they had a press release about that. while they advertise that xm is included, they don't issue press releases each month to announce that xm is included.
honda/toyota are so much more reliable and they are "worth it". in my experience they are not my experience is the total opposite. my 2 ford have been very weak compared to the satisfaction my 3 honda and 2 toyota deliver. ford's burned me twice. i doubt i'd ever buy one again. my 15 year old won't see one in the driveway either. leaning towards an hyundai. and i get "out on the internet". i don't need it to tell me to steer clear of ford.
my experience is the total opposite. my 2 ford have been very weak compared to the satisfaction my 3 honda and 2 toyota deliver. i feel the same. ford needs to step it up to earn my business. the ford seems to be an ok car, but its too new on the scene for it to be judged in the esteemed light of an honda (yea i'm honda-biased but for a good reason). lets see how it holds together with 90,000 miles on it. the saturn looks good too, but how do we know what it'll be like with 90,000 on it? i'm pulling for gm tho with its new models - the saturn, the new chevrolet, and the new cts. c'mon gm.
that's weird, i got a quote on my insurance for an honda that was $150 more every 6 months compared to a mazda 6...and a honda si was like $300 more every 6 months! car insurance is just strange. like a zip code where you live can have a big impact on insurance even if you park your car in a locked garage, while work addresses aren't considered and cars there are out in the open. ah well, what do you do?
the honda is one of the most stolen cars in the usa. that's likely why the higher insurance rates.
dont you find it difficult driving a manual in stop and go driving. i personally hated it. besides you can't chat on the cell phone and drive if you drive a stick :p
me: "from a dead stop, a manual 4-cyl honda will hold its own against an auto v6 ford." scape: "no, it won't." well, i've tried supporting my argument by stating that i have driven both cars and own one of them. however it seems we'll have to take another look at some numbers. car and driver clocked the 2007 honda i4 manual as having a very respectable 7.5 second 0-60 time, slightly slower than the new nissan 4. i couldn't find much other data on 2006 and later (post engine power bump) honda 4-cylinder manuals. the v6 ford automatic has plenty of test results available, however the results are all over the place. you are right, motor trend did clock one at 7.2 seconds, however there are many other credible sources that weren't able to acheive that time. please read the following excerpts: edmunds.com, full test of sel v6- 0-60 mph 8.0 sec , notes: "we achieved our best time doing a "street start" with the traction control turned off." newcar.com- &#147;the 221-hp v6 engine provides enough power, although the ford will not likely be mistaken for a sports sedan. the ford can accelerate from 0 to 60 mph in about 8 seconds, a reasonable performance though not as quick as the v6 versions of the honda honda and toyota toyota.&#148; autoweek- &#147;in a straight line the ford turned in a respectable&#151;if average&#151;performance. its 3.0-liter 221-hp v6 just edges the best our long-term hyundai hyundai&#146;s larger 3.3-liter v6 could deliver, both to 60 mph (7.5 seconds vs. 7.51) as well as through the quarter-mile (15.7 seconds at 91.2 mph vs. 15.76 at 89.4).&#148; 7.2 seconds? 8.0 seconds? 7.5 seconds? even if you take the fastest time for the ford, versus the only time i found for the honda, that's only 0.3 seconds difference. between a 2.4l four, and a 3.0l six that has an extra gear! the results indicate to me that it would be a well-matched street race. oh wait, i already did that myself (versus its sister car), and won. seems to me like somebody just doesn't want to admit that a 4-cylinder honda can keep up with his v6...
ever hear of "bluetooth"? anyhow driving and chating is illegal in a bunch of states including mine and doesn't need an official proclaimation, for me anyhow, to be avoided.
according to the 12/1/06 statement pasted in #831, hyundai started curtailing fleet sales dramatically in 11/06. if they established a new policy in november, they would not keep issuing the same press release month after month. while such monthly press releases wouldn't be a "5 month old new article",they would certainly be "old news." i'm not looking for another press release. i'm looking for numbers!!!!!!! a lot can change in 5 months which is why that press release is worthless. hyundai also isn't going to release a statement to the press that they've increased fleet sales either. i go along with them having lowered hyundai fleet sales but they were selling ove 50% of them to fleets as of july 2006. i doubt the big drop in hyundai sales is a result of them cutting fleet sales by the same amount. let's be realistic here. :sick:
if you found somebody to pay 5000 (or 6000 if you're saying kbb was 5k) for a 12 year old car, consider yourself lucky. you found a moron who would have overpaid for anything. while i agree that it is nuts to pay $5000 for a 12 year old car with 150k miles, i don't think you are correct about the person being willing to overpay for anything. i imagine that there are a lot of people who believe that a 12 year old honda with 150k miles is more "reliable" than a 5 year old ford with 60k miles. in fact, i bet in many people's view the age and mileage does not even enter into their evaluation of this...they would figure a 1992 honda with 250,000 miles on it is more "reliable" than a brand new ford.
hate to jump into a series of posts arguing aceleration numbers because they are largely irrelevent due to a hundred factors e.g. driver...mechanical condition..reflexes (in a street race)..road surface condition...is it your car as opposed to a rental etc. some of the few times i really care about having a fast car involve a quick pass on a two lane with oncoming traffic and the passee speeding up and i've passed "bingo". a quick entry onto an interstate with two peterbuilts..one in each lane..bearing down on me @ about 75 mph. those plus the occasional "pull away" from a tailgater.that said, i prefer a v-6 to a 4 and buy the larger v-6 if two of those are available. i am of the "better to have it and not need it" school of thought. anyhow, what i wanted to say was autoweek has the absolute slowest numbers i have ever seen for a v-6 hyundai both 0-60 and 1/4 mile
the honda is one of the most stolen cars in the usa. that's likely why the higher insurance rates. that's silly. ever think that the sheer number of honda out there has anything to do with its target for thiefs? my insurance agent says the honda is one of the cheaper cars to insure.
my insurance agent says the honda is one of the cheaper cars to insure. maybe that's because they are getting all those stolen body parts cheap . seriously though, insurance costs vary. for me, my insurance agent has said for any car i have the liability will cost the same with my insurance company. he tells me for collision it varys a little based on the cost of body parts. i think he said generally import body parts would be more expensive. i think he may have also said that some cars have alternate body part suppliers, with lower prices. since the honda and mazda are built here they should be toward the cheaper end along with other models that are asembled in north america. honda might be so common that there are alternate suppliers. in the end, for me the make and model of the vehicle has little impact on determining my auto insurance rate. apparently this is not the case for everyone, though. btw, mada6 made #2 and honda #6 on the cheap to insure list here at edmunds: http://www.edmunds.com/reviews/list/top10/110137/article.html
oh i agree with you about there being a hundred factors which influence acceleration numbers. i only got started on the whole debate because someone made the blanket statement that ford v6 was "much faster" than competing 4-cylinders. that's simply not the case for honda manual and nissan manual and cvt, they are right there with the ford v6. car and driver clocked a 2.5l manual nissan at 7.2 seconds, matching the best time i've seen for a ford (the motor trend test).
i go along with them having lowered hyundai fleet sales but they were selling ove 50% of them to fleets as of july 2006. i doubt the big drop in hyundai sales is a result of them cutting fleet sales by the same amount. hmmm, interesting correlation. i think you may be on to something here! i think there's a few factors behind the drop in hyundai sales: * hma's decision to reduce fleet sales. * a big increase in hyundai fe sales over last year; hyundai fes are made in the same plant as hyundai, so if they can sell a higher-priced hyundai fe vs. a hyundai, which would they choose? * reduction in hyundai incentives compared to last year. * general slowness in the auto industry coupled with stronger competition this year vs. last year (e.g. new toyota, new saturn, big incentives on honda and mazda's, improving reputation for fulan), combined with no major changes to the hyundai since its introduction two years ago. it's no longer the "fresh-faced kid on the block."
dont you find it difficult driving a manual in stop and go driving. wow, why do you live in a miserable place with stop and go traffic? why don't you live closer to work? i personally hated it. besides you can't chat on the cell phone and drive if you drive a stick maybe if you didn't have a boring car and lots of "stop and go traffic" you would actually enjoy driving and not want to talk on the phone :p
i only got started on the whole debate because someone made the blanket statement that ford v6 was "much faster" than competing 4-cylinders. it wasn't a blanket statement originally. i was comparing an atx to an atx. you made it into an atx vs mtx argument and you are right about that as i pointed out. however, your 0-60 times for the honda 5a were just plain wrong and the ford v6 is a much better performer than the honda i4 5a. plus they are really, really close in price. .8 to 1 second difference is big no matter how you slice it. those of you who have bought an honda i4 5m are getting quite a performance deal because it is nearly every bit as quick as a ford v6 for $1k or $2k less. but i don't imagine many of you do have an honda with that drivetrain so my point still applies to the vast majority. oh i agree with you about there being a hundred factors which influence acceleration numbers. a lot of people don't get that though. if the two weren't tested on the same track, on the same day, and with the same driver, then it's hard to believe any comparison of numbers.
here's the link: dzelinski, "subaru subaru/outbacktransmission problems" #45, 11 may 2007 7:25 am .
agreed, on nearly all points. that honda i4 5a time was probably fast by 0.2 seconds. a few things to consider, regarding the atx to atx argument: nissan 2.5l cvt is very nearly as quick as the fastest test of a ford v6 atx. also, i suspect the 2008 honda (with the new a-vtec engines and resulting power increases) will be able to match the nissan, closing the gap to the ford unless ford has some new tricks. a-vtec promises to increase economy as well, where the honda already has a distinct advantage (i am seeing 28-29 honda and 34-38 highway).
dont you find it difficult driving a manual in stop and go driving. i find it quite easy to drive a stick in stop and go traffic. i actually prefer it to an automatic because i can anticipate and coast. and i've spent a lot of time in that kind of traffic. :sick:
honda (with the new a-vtec engines and resulting power increases) will be able to match the nissan, closing the gap to the ford unless ford has some new tricks. well, that brings us back to the whole origin of this and other conversations i'm trying to clear up here. the new pip d30 engine for the ford and ford will, if all the news on ford forums are correct, have more horsepower and better fuel economy with no hit in price. a cvt is a completely different animal but it is the closest thing to an atx nissan offers in the nissan right now so i'd say that's fair to compare too. 99% of freestyle owners i've come across say it has plenty of power for them with the cvt (which is gone for the ford x and d35 motor btw) and that's a heavy vehicle with a relatively weak engine. so something good has to be going on in a cvt. i've never driven a cvt equipped vehicle, so i can't attest to the magic they perform.
"dont you find it difficult driving a manual in stop and go driving. i personally hated it. besides you can't chat on the cell phone and drive if you drive a stick" when i used to live in an area that had rush hour i still preferred a manual. now the nearest town with any kind of traffic congestion is about 200 miles away. i go years at a time between waiting more than one cycle for a light. :p as far as cell phones go the honda is quiet enough that i can just put it on speaker. love the drivetrain in the i4 manual. nice and quick, but still give ford like fuel economy (or better). my lifetime mpg is 31.3 for my honda, and 40 mpg is obtainable on the highway - 35 mpg under poor conditions. still, i was another that looked at the ford. it is a nice drive, but the dash and switch gear are below my 1990 acura, seemed a little more cramped than the honda, and mpg was not there. i also wish they made a wagon.
also wish they made a wagon. yeah that ruled out the honda and others the last go around, but this time the car is for me so the needs are different.
if hyundai cut back on its fleet sales by 60%, their april '07 sales of 10,434 would have had 8347 retail sales and 2087 fleet sales. using your 50% figure, april, '06 sales would have been 7858 retail & 7858 fleet. cutting back fleet sales to a total of 20% is not unrealistic. :p
if all the news on ford forums are correct, have more horsepower and better fuel economy with no hit in price when toyota developed the new 3.5 2gr they did it with a savings of $1000.00 per engine and picked up 80 hp,a coupla mpgs in the process, and did it with enough (us) plant capacities to use it in about every car that toyota and lexus makes. that ford should be 'rewarded' 'by a hit in price' is silly. for what, maybe making an engine that is borderline competitive, 5 years too late? i only hope that they can figure out how to take out whatever it is that makes the engine so rough sounding and harsh feeling. even the (new?) dt3.5 has been getting some mixed reviews in that dept.
i also wish they made a wagon. i think the edge is essentially the ford wagon.
good point assuming those are hyundai numbers. i guess i was figuring on the sales numbers to be higher for some reason. the key word in your proposal is "if" though. did hyundai cut hyundai fleet sales back by 60%? i'm not saying they didn't, but did they? history would tell us that they didn't.
that ford should be 'rewarded' 'by a hit in price' is silly. i never said there would be a hit in price. i have no idea what the price will be and neither does anyone else at this point. i'm guessing they won't raise the price when the new version of the engine comes out. i only hope that they can figure out how to take out whatever it is that makes the engine so rough sounding and harsh feeling. mazda did but i don't know that ford will. when toyota developed the new 3.5 2gr they did it with a savings of $1000.00 per engine and picked up 80 hp,a coupla mpgs in the process, and did it with enough (us) plant capacities to use it in about every car that toyota and lexus makes. this isn't the right place for this, but ford, gm, dcx, and toyota plants are not of the same breed. ford is now finally converting it's plants to support flexible manufacturing which will also lower re-tooling costs and time. right now that's just not the case. did you read that article i posted about the pip d30? it is going to take them a little over a year to re-tool the cleveland engine plant #2 to prpcude that engine. toyota does not have to deal with such downtime because their plants are much newer. fwiw, the other dt35 engine plants are set up to switch between building the dt35 and dt37 variants with little or no downtime as i understand it. they are taking their sweet old time with the new engine but i think we can all agree that they have to to get it right. and should.
"i think the edge is essentially the ford wagon. " yes true, but the 4-cyl is borderline for mpg. the v-6 just uses way too much fuel, and i require a stick shift. i am also not interested in the whole crossover thing - just a regular wagon with all the advantages of a sedan, but more room.
mazda did but i don't know that ford will. having never driven a 6 but obviously with a lot of bad taste in my mouth for the ford dt3.0- correct me if i'm wrong, - except for the blown 4 banger, ford and mazda drivetrains are identical, even to the point of coming out of that same ohio factory? ford can't do what it wants or needs to do because of some nasty labor contracts as well as horrendous losses in the last few years. toyota can do and did obviously what it needed to for pretty much the opposite reasons. it takes money to make money, and toyota sure has beaucoups of that. if it takes ford another year or two to get a lousy 240hp v6 out, it will be too late, as usual and the ford (so equipped) will be a market afterthought - if it isn't already. remember that when the 500 came out hampered by the same engine, ford promised then that they would have a better engine for it for the 06 model. didn't happen, of course and now even the renamed ford which was promised for last month, is still not here. promises come from the sales depts., real cars are what the bean counters allow to be built.
the key word in your proposal is "if" though. did hyundai cut hyundai fleet sales back by 60%? i'm not saying they didn't, but did they? history would tell us that they didn't. that history you speak of would be the purposeful program hyundai had for a good part of 06 on the hyundai. aside from that, hyundai's fleet figures are average at best. the purpose of the hyundai program, and i'm paraphrasing hyundai officials' words - to get as many butts in the hyundai as possible most automakers do not have fleet/retail split model-by model readily available, and for good reasons but, i will try to see if i can get confirmation from one of my buddies who works for polk. for now, based on my conversations with various industry professionals, hyundai fleet units have been reduced since the purposeful program ended, while ford went up.
didn't happen, of course and now even the renamed ford which was promised for last month, is still not here. promises come from the sales depts., real cars are what the bean counters allow to be built. i thought the new (2008?) ford (nee five hundred) was supposed to get the 3.5-liter v6. no? i though i also read where fomoco's bean counters were going to be shoved into the background for a change. no? boz
"i think the edge is essentially the ford wagon. " yes true, but the 4-cyl is borderline for mpg. the v-6 just uses way too much fuel, and i require a stick shift. i am also not interested in the whole crossover thing - just a regular wagon with all the advantages of a sedan, but more room. ditto. but i know i am not typical and i would say others on this forum, just by the fact that they are here, are not typical either. i am less excited about added vehicle height and center of gravity, reduced maneuverability, and harder entry and exit for children.
yes, the only thing i've seen on the 3.5 engined 500 are car show photos and a promised april 07 date as apparently an 08 model. in the meanwhile dealers continue to give away 500s off their lots at $5000.00+ discounts. the five hundred, imo, is in much the same situation as the ford, a good overall design courtesy of somebody else, but both saddled with an outdated powertrain. whether the bean counters are now in the background, i don't know, but it sure doesn't seem like it. and i'm also not so sure that the 'ford' name will solve any problems either - a car that had a good name 10 or 15 years ago, that quickly degenerated into the definition of a rental car.
but it sure doesn't seem like it. and i'm also not so sure that the 'ford' name will solve any problems either - a car that had a good name 10 or 15 years ago in the end, the ford didn't have that good of a name. the last few years it was arround, ford pretty much neglected it, and its reliability ratings kept dropping, along with its sales. thats why ford canned it. but, the replacements (ford/500) combined sales are even less than the ford was in its last year. which is why they want to try and bring it back.
so something good has to be going on in a cvt. i've never driven a cvt equipped vehicle, so i can't attest to the magic they perform. i wouldn't call it magic, its just more efficent. it's kind of like comparing and overhead cam setup with a pushrod/lifter one, or fuel injection to carburation. there's less moving parts, so less loss of energy. i'd be willing to bet the difference in the alti 0-60 time (and other speed tests) is entirely because of that. and on a separate note, with a lot less moving part, and generaly simpler design, repair/replacement costs are much lower.
i'm pulling for gm tho with its new models - the saturn, the new chevrolet, and the new cts. c'mon gm. i think gm will be alright. the chevrolet seems like a good car that is selling well. with the addition of the chevrolet ss, it should only improve. also, the chevrolet seems to be doing fairly well. i actualy see as many of them a i do toyota's. that gives gm a dominant position in truck/suv's, and a competitive midsize and sub-compact. if they can just come up with a decent compact (cobatl doesn't impress me)and a crossover or two, they should be fine.
spy shots
i think the 2007 looks better
"i think the 2007 looks better" i wouldn't say that my 2007 looks "better," but i don't have to worry anymore about seeing a new 2008 and feeling buyers remorse for not waiting. they are both nice looking cars. i wonder what the interior looks like. judging from the shot of the coupe with the door open, it might have those uncomfortable side armrests like the new toyota (slanted and sloped with a big grab handle).
this looks to be a low-end model. note the cloth seats, modest tires, and lack of a sunroof. one tailpipe indicates the 4-cylinder model. notice, there's no body-side moulding. i like the door handles, they seem sculpted to a design, not just basic handles.
before i say this, don't get me wrong. i think the car looks fine, i think the 2007 is a very nice looking car, and i have absolutely nothing against honda: but, the three things i don't like about the 2008 are 1. the tail. i don't know if its shorter, or lower or what, but doesn't look as good to me as the 2007. the most notable of it, the tail lights. i always thought that made the honda's rear end look much better, the triangular taillights. 2. the headlights. hard to tell exactly, but look like the stick out from the fender. 3. the door pannels look flat. no creases or design to them. kind of plain jane looking. i know its just a couple of spy shots, but thats my impression.
overall, i think i like it. but...the front end reminds me a little of a saturn l series, the side of a bmw 5 series, and the rear pillar of an nissan. not bad. the grill seems tacky and cheap--black plastic of a not particularly pleasing shape. like a ford without the chrome. frankly, i think the current ford may be a nicer looking car, because it's more coherent and less fussy. but my guess is that in terms of performance and quality, the honda may have the edge.
having never driven a 6 but obviously with a lot of bad taste in my mouth for the ford dt3.0- correct me if i'm wrong, - except for the blown 4 banger, ford and mazda drivetrains are identical, even to the point of coming out of that same ohio factory? i will correct you. the mazda version of the dt30 in the mazda v6 has a mazda exclusive vvt system and uses different heads and intake among other things. it is quite smooth when compared to a ford dt30. i have not driven a honda or toyota lately so i can't compare unfortunately. the motor is mfd in the same plant as the ford dt30s but it is different in several key ways. i have to wonder if the pip d30 motor i speak of is in fact some newer version of that mazda v6 as the next mazda will get the dt35, and a good bit of length added, from what has been printed several times. if it has an mtx it might be quite appealing. of course and now even the renamed ford which was promised for last month, is still not here. where on earth did you hear that? ford's official press release from the chicago auto show states summer availability.
not sure what everyone is commenting on. all i see are 3 boxes with red x's in them.
and isn't captain's impression of the dt30 based on the ford five hundred, a car that weighs 500 pounds more than the ford or 6? if i remember correctly, his comments from several months ago were about a different car that may or may not have similar characteristics as the ford or the 6. try driving a honda honda or nissan nissan and tell me you can't hear that the engine is stressing a bit more pulling all that extra weight compared to the sedans with similar engines. to give you an idea of how smooth the mazda engine is, today i accidentally drove about 10 miles in 4th going around 70mph before noticing and shifting up to 5th. 4k+ rpms does sound more aggressive in the mazda, but the thing is, i want it to sound like that when i rev it up that high. passionate driving should involve your senses; what you hear influences what you feel. if you exceed 4k rpms, you're doing it for a reason, and an aggressive sound simply is expressing your intentions. but when i want to be serene and smooth, i will keep the engine below 4k and get comments from people like my uncle who drives a lexus saying that they are surprised at how quiet the mazda 6 is. that, to me, is one of the great things about the 6...it can be quite civil when you want it, but when you're in the mood for fun, it has great grip and balance through curves, amazing brakes along with an engine that propels the car nicely. oh yeah, for 5k less than an honda.
try this link: link title yeah, not too impressed with the sedan. the profile looks a bit too generic still. in some ways it reminds me of the hyundai from the side view. i do like the front though, especially the headlights. i wonder if they will have that tl type line down the side like the coupe had... one thing though notice the last pic of the front quarter of the honda with the older honda behind it? and notice the last car in that same picture has the same wheels as the 08 honda coupe in it's spy shot? looks like they are doing some comparing the old vs the new.
the wife and i bought a 2007 sel awd v6 6-speed automatic ford on dec. 4, 2006. the msrp was $27,105. other than the standard sel equipment and the awd, it has heated leather seats, anti-lock brakes, and a moon roof. my wife refused to consider asian cars and the only one i was really interested in was the honda honda. my question is: how much honda could i have gotten for $27,105? a v6? moon roof? awd is not available, of course. the ford comes in three models, the s, se and sel and there is a choice of two engines, the 160-horsepower i4 2.3 liter with either a 5-speed manual or a 5-speed automatic. the 3.0-liter v6 only comes with a 6-speed automatic. my wife and i, to some extent, believed the honda to be priced out of our range for the options we wanted and the standard sel features on the ford (too numerous to list all). this car has been delightful so far, 3,000 miles and no squeaks or rattles, no breakages, nary a problem except for very poor (14.8 average) in-honda gas mileage. unfortunately, 95 percent of our driving in in the honda, stop-and-go, short hops. i am having second thoughts now. i am wondering how much honda can be bought for $27,105. the ford's bold, distinctive styling and superior handling qualities were big selling points as was having a top-notch ford, lincoln, mercury dealer, sherwood of salisbury, md. granted, now is not a good time to go shopping but i might be in the market for an honda within a year or so.
sounds to me like you got your ford fully loaded. an honda fully loaded would have problby run you about 32k.
yeah, jd, everything but sirius radio, navigation system and the audiophile sound system. our radio is the premium version though, with 6 cd player and six speakers (eight on the audiophile version). those missing options are not something that we would order. then again, neither is the awd. 32k for a fully loaded honda? that's steep in my book. plus the honda dealer is only so-so, carries too many other brands. has a mini conglomerate. thanks for the reply. our fully loaded ford will be just fine for awhile. i was afraid that the honda were priced like that.
check the honda prices paid forum right now. the most i can find anyone paying for an honda v6 honda with navigation (not avail on ford yet) is $26k or so. that is the most honda you can buy. you'd be hard pressed to spend $27k for an honda unless you just didn't shop around much. people are paying $1,000-$2,000 under invoice for honda. the reason is the more 2007 models dealers sell now, the more highly profitable 2008s they will be alotted.
the only honda that may cost 32k is the hybrid v6. i think you could get any other honda for 27-28k easy.
the honda honda might be a good fit for you. with today's incentives, you could probably get one for under $23k. it has leather, moonroof, and alloys. its i4 is peppy and all that you need for 95% in-town driving, and it will deliver a lot better fuel economy than a v6. if you are serious about being in the market for an honda soon, you might be able to take advantage of model close-out pricing that is likely this fall once the all-new 2008 honda roll out. but you would take a bath on your ford, just as you would selling any car that is less than a year old. if you can find a hungry honda dealer this fall, maybe they would trade you straight up for a 2007 honda honda, and if you are really lucky maybe one with nav.
the only honda that may cost 32k is the hybrid v6. i think you could get any other honda for 27-28k easy. i checked my local dealers website, and the highest they had was 31,700. i wasn't just pulling a number out of the air. but that was fully loaded with a nav system. yes, they had a lot of honda cheaper, but it looked to me like the poster spent about as much as you can on a ford, so i specificly looked for the most someone could spend on an honda. and no, it wasn't a hybrid
the msrp for the honda honda v6 with navi and destination is $29,995, so that dealer had a bunch of added junk that doesn't really add to the value of the car. that, or the dealer is crooked.
of course he is. they all are
the msrp for the honda honda v6 with navi and destination is $29,995 but actually, its not listed as an honda v6. something called an honda honda auto ulev with navi
27k will buy the honda v-6 infiniti loaded. it quite fast (5.9 to 60) and gets pretty good gas mileage epa 21/30. if you need traction in the winter snow tires will do more than awd - after all they will help you stop, and not being able to stop is more likely to get you in trouble.
actually, dudleyr, we didn't shop for honda because we figured a loaded one with a v6, moonroof and leather seats would cost around $30,000. our ford has all of the bells and whistles except for navigation and sirius, which don't interest us. i wouldn't have ordered awd either, the car just came that way on the lot. in retrospect, we bought the ford too fast. but $27,000 msrp, before the dealing, was our absolute maximum (paid cash and traded in a 2000, one-owner, mazda miata with 7,500 original miles on it. ($8,000 trade-in.) given our honda driving habits, 95 percent, we should have gone with an i4. the ford's 14.8 mpg honda is a killer. thanks to all who have weighed in on this topic, "how much honda." hindsight is always 20-20. the sel is a nice package though. we especially like the piano black dash, no plood, and the fit and finish is perfect on our car.
"...traded in a 2000, one-owner, mazda miata with 7,500 original miles on it. ($8,000 trade-in.)" seven thousand miles??? d&#\!~, i wish that i would have been standing there to buy that from you for 80 bones.
seven thousand miles??? d&#\!~, i wish that i would have been standing there to buy that from you for 80 bones. true. 7,500 miles and looked like new. my mother bought the car new in 2000 when she was 81 years old. drove it to church, the grocery store, the beauty shop. oil changed every six months. she never had the top down. after she got side-swiped by a semi i took away her driver's license and kept the car for about six months before trading it on the ford. it was a sweet machine but a true sports car in every sense. not a practical car and the smallness of it scared me. the side-swipe accident did $2,000 damage. it had been repaired when we traded it. kelley blue book range on the car was $8,000 to $10,000. i thought the $8,000 was a fair price. maybe i should have held out for more or offered it in a private sale. hindsight is 20-20. my wife and i both like the ford more than the miata convertible.
google navigation+depreciation. then see how you feel about it as a built in feature.
i'm not "pro-built-in-nav," and if it seemed that way, i misspoke. i have the portable unit (for around $300) and love the fact that i can use it in unlimited different vehicles. built-in units cost much more than that, and while often coming with other neat features, the fact that it is only useful in that car limits its "help" factor. i just wrote about the honda with navi because even the navi-equipped honda would be less than the $27k our ford-buying friend mentioned. unfortunately, it appears he didn't know about the incentives, or the mpg penalty awd would beckon. he got a nice car though. for me, i have a hard time paying for satellite radio, leather, or built-in navigation (hence the reason my car has none of that). i would, however, love to see the 2008 honda offer automatic climate control on some cloth-equipped models. it's not a big deal, but an area where i'd like to see a change.
hmm. i actually hate the current honda sedan and coupe. i kind of like the '08s though. i'm not ready to drop everything and buy one but they are nicer. two things i notices right off the bat. the head and tail lights seem to jut out from the body, on the side, which is one thing i don't really like. looks sloppy to me and the last gen toyota head lights were like that too. the other thing is the grille. it appears to be covered in black tape on the mule. i'm guessing the production version will show that there's a three-bar chrome grille under that black tape. at least on the ex anyway. wonder where that idea came from. :p one more thing. the profile kind of looks like a bmw bmw in a way. low hood, high greenhouse, slightly lower trunk, but without the goofy "bangle butt".
interesting article comparing 25 midsize and large sedans costing less than $21,000.
thanks for the link. their reviews are much better written than another purported consumer oriented magazine. they seem to real world. they match exactly what i saw in a neighbor's visiting brother's toyota. they also have large sedan reviews. hyundai tops the list.
thought you ought to know that ifcar is a car research institute consisting of one auto junkie. nevertheless, i like his evaluation tables .
very interesting reviews, rhduke00. thanks for the link. i learned something. it was interesting that the 4-cylinder ford finished 4th while the v6 ford finished 14th. as the owner of a 2007 v6 sel awd ford, i would have to agree with that assessment. we should have ordered an i4 sel rather than taking what was on the lot. we get horrific in-honda gas mileage, 14.8 mpg, and don't need the power of a v6 because 95 percent of our driving is in-honda. hindsight is always 20-20. we bought power we don't need. the same is true for the all-wheel-drive. both are expensive options. our sel had a msrp of $27,105. an i4 sel would have been a much better deal. again, thanks for the link, even though it reinforces our buyer's remorse.
i just wrote about the honda with navi because even the navi-equipped honda would be less than the $27k our ford-buying friend mentioned. unfortunately, it appears he didn't know about the incentives, or the mpg penalty awd would beckon. he got a nice car though. graduate, actually i did know about the awd penalty. the original epa in-honda estimate on the window sticker was 19 mpg, which i could live with. believing that was my first mistake. since then, the epa has revised its estimate for this power train downward to 17 mpg honda. i could live with that, too. it's the 14.8 mpg that we are getting in honda driving that is killing me. bottom line: we should have ordered an sel with an i4, either manual or automatic, instead of buying what was on the lot. i didn't think the i4 would be powerful enough but, according to numerous posts on various forums, it would have been just fine for our purpose.
interesting that of the top 8 cars, there's two kia optimas, two hyundai hyundai, two ford (ford and five hundred), the saturn, and the honda. i think it reinforces how competitive this class is and that if people bother to look beyond the "automatic" choices of honda and toyota (and maybe nissan), there's several very good cars and good values in this class.
that's a very good point, backy. i also found it interesting that the ford placed fourth (the i4) and fourteenth (the v6). the reviewer obviously places more value on the four cylinder models. indeed, we now wish we had ordered an i4 sel ford rather than buying a v6 off the lot. your point about the diversity in this mid-size sedan class is well-taken. i really wish we had been able to read this information before we decided. we would have saved several thousand dollars and been better satisfied to boot.
honda still #1.
thank-you!! i have been saying this all along and now another person comes along and shows folks, honda are thousands more than like optioned ford/milans/hyundai's.. this is common knowledge.. :surprise:
no you didn't buy the ford too fast. don't let the honda crowd get to you. you have a very well built vehicle at a good price. the ford fit/finish is every bit as good as an honda or toyota. when i shopped last year the ford salesperson was so confident he took the ford to both a honda lot and a toyota lot to show me first hand face to face, side by side comparison. i had 4 - 5 sales people walking, poking, opening/shutting doors ect around these cars looking at every detail. i am totally confident the ford will easily hold up over 100,000 miles. in fact. i just got back from a trip to idaho in my ford. i wanted to post this so badly!! i traveled with my whole family. 2 adults, 2 children, soccer gear/luggage. i averaged 75mph and got 32.6 mpg!! this is 3mpg better than ford advertises. i as extremely happy. the car handled like it was on rails through the mountains, and drove with confidence. you made a great choice in buying a ford. :shades:
thank-you for posting this!! so much! yet another reason why the ford is a great value and a great vehicle. it finishes within points behind the honda. some here make it seem as if the ford is miles behind the honda when look yet again! its not. take a look at the pricing difference. http://ifcar.net/reviews.comparisons.inexpensivefamilysedans.htm
good read! i was certainly surprised to see the hyundai hyundai and kia kia tying for first place, and well deserved too. edit: just noticed the hyundai hyundai took the first place as well in the large sedan category. kudos!!
"honda still #1. " did you read the article? nope the honda is #3.. :confuse:
you made a great choice in buying a ford. nobody seems to be saying otherwise. instead, that they bought the wrong ford for his/her needs. 14 mpg when they don't need v6 power or awd is pretty sad, when the 2.3l ford would've sufficed. out of curiousity, do you realize that it is ok for people to disagree with you and it not be personal? there always seems to be a chip on your shoulder. sure, the ford will hold up 100,000 miles, as should any car on the market today. anyone saying otherwise is just trying to push your buttons. i'm glad you got above epa numbers on your trip. i just got back in my honda and did similarly to you! 36 mpg, 75 mph (through the ozark mountains), 100% a/c use. 2 mpg better than epa with 700 lbs of load in the car. just proves that with the right driving style, the epa numbers aren't as bad as people say they are. with better conditions (for both of us) the numbers will only climb (i've seen 40 mpg twice in my 4-cyl, i'll bet you might see 35 if you drove closer to 65 mph). hey, urnews (i hope you read this so i'm making your name big ), you mention your ford's sticker, but you never mention what you actually paid for it. since honda are going consistently $1,000 and more under invoice, i'd guess your ford did too, making your deal better than the $27k you are telling us about. fill us in! there's not a bad car in this bunch! some are just better for some people than others, and it is usually subjective (style, interior finishings, engine sounds, ride/handling compromise).
you got a nicely equipped car. i drive a 4-cyl honda and i regret not buying v6. grass is greener on the other side.
with my average mileage being close to 30 mpg, the grass is only greener looking for me because my engine pollutes less! j/k i really have more power than i need in a 4-cylinder. it's all relative. embrace what you've got.
are my eyes deceiving me? i see first place. like i've said before, it's the best you can get for $25,000. http://www.ifcar.net/reviews.comparisons.premiumfamilysedans.1stplace.htm
are my eyes deceiving me? i see first place. your link is different than the original link posted above. his referred to cars under 21k and the i4 honda se took third, behind an kia and hyundai.
we all have different price ranges, this is true. $25,000 was my personal price limit.
are my eyes deceiving me? i see first place. like i've said before, it's the best you can get for $25,000. i wouldn't pay too much attention to rankings. i'm willing to bet you can find a fist place review for most midsize cars. they're good for learning about a cars features, handling ect, but as far as ranking, it's too subjective. i realy don't think you can go wrong with most of the midsize sedans out there. the compettion has become so intense that the quality in all of them has gone up pretty significantly.
well said.
i wouldn't pay too much attention to rankings. i'm willing to bet you can find a fist place review for most midsize cars. they're good for learning about a cars features, handling ect, but as far as ranking, it's too subjective. i realy don't think you can go wrong with most of the midsize sedans out there. the compettion has become so intense that the quality in all of them has gone up pretty significantly. agreed!
with the possible exception of the verona. don't see much discussion about that car here.
hey, urnews (i hope you read this so i'm making your name big ), you mention your ford's sticker, but you never mention what you actually paid for it. since honda are going consistently $1,000 and more under invoice, i'd guess your ford did too, making your deal better than the $27k you are telling us about. fill us in! grad we didn't get the best deal possible. they marked the $27,105 msrp down to $24,180 and gave us $8,000 for a 2000 mazda miata convertible with 7,500 miles on it. (not a misprint). we bought the car dec. 4, 2006. all toll, we paid $16,180 for the $27,105 car. had we been smart, we would have ordered an sel 14, 5-speed manual and waited a few months until convertible season (higher trade-in) arrived. i would be much happier if the car just delivered average miles per gallon, epa-estimated 17 for in-honda driving, which is 95 percent of our travel. i don't believe that is every going to happen. we made some bad choices and are just stuck with the result. it was a cash deal. i figure the dealer made out like a bandit. we also should have considered the honda more closely. we just automatically figured it would have cost more when equipped like the ford. the awd was a big mistake. our climate is moderate, with very little snow each year. the best way to describe our situation is "buyer's remorse." the next time, if there is one, i will do more homework and probably buy an honda, an i4 at that.
come on boz - how can you expect average mpg when you only drive short stop-n-go trips with an average mph of 20?
come on boz - how can you expect average mpg when you only drive short stop-n-go trips with an average mph of 20? you've got a good memory allen. on the current tank we are only averaging 16 mph, even slower. but this is the year 2007. shouldn't a 160-cubic-inch v6 engine coupled to a six-speed automatic in a 3,200-pound car at least deliver 17 mpg in almost any honda-driving conditions? it makes no sense to me that we can only manage 14.8 mpg when we are both gentle drivers. i just can't fathom it. something has to be wrong with this car.
given that your avg. mph is only 16 on this tank, that implies that you either you drive in a lot of stop and go traffic with a goodly number of signals or stop signs, or you sit in traffic and your vehicle idles a great deal. either way, it would seem that your driving is definitely not conducive to good mileage, even with a gentle foot on the gas pedal. what i would suggest you try, if possible, is to try and replicate the epa test cycle and see what happens. here is a link to the test variables: epa test cycles when you get there, hyundai on the tab "detailed comparison". the table listed will show you the the major test variables the epa uses to determine mileage. if you can find a way to replicate the environment and test and then your vehicle still falls far short of the honda mileage, then maybe there is a problem. chances are though if you can replicate the test you will find that your car can meet the test results. either way, maybe it will help reduce your "buyer's remorse".
shouldn't a 160-cubic-inch v6 engine coupled to a six-speed automatic in a 3,200-pound car at least deliver 17 mpg in almost any honda-driving conditions? nope. consider that for every minute you're stopped in traffic or moving very slowly you'd have to spend an equal time at highway speed getting 34 mpg to average 17. you need a smaller engine that consumes less fuel when idling or better yet a hybrid that shuts off when stopped. or get a longer, faster commute.
from the type of driving you face, it isn't likely that you are getting into 6th gear (maybe not even 5th gear)on your typical commutes.
have a 213 ci, 268 hp engine in a 3600 lb. car that consistently gets me 27 mpg overall on epa ratings of 22/31. could i fathom a set of conditions where i might only average let's say, 12 mpg - sure. it's called stop and go traffic and gridlock. take your awd ford dt v6 out on the highway and drive away a tank at 65mph, if it doesn't do closer to 30 mpg i would be surprised, and there may be something wrong with it. it is a relatively economical engine, although you have certainly penalized it with the awd. epa ratings really mean little except in relative terms, the fact that they are not realistic measures for many drivers and/or driving conditions is something that's been going on for 30 years or so, i find it difficult to believe that you wouldn't know this. that little 4 banger you yearn for probably won't crack 18 under those same conditions your v6 is getting less than 15. given that you apparently drive very few miles, suggest that the v6 is not really costing you much at the pumps - put a pencil to it - it may help with your 'remorse' - but don't think that the 2.3 4 cyl is going to come close to its honda ratings either - at least for you.
captain2, we have taken one 360-mile road trip with the 2007 sel awd when the car had 1,200 miles on it. it yielded 26 mpg going and 24 mpg returning. average speed for the entire trip was 60 mph or so. dealer road tested the car with an on-board computer hooked up at 1,500 miles and got 24 mpg at 50, 60 and 70 mph during a 12-mile run. shop foreman pronounced it to be aok, according to specs. he provided computer printouts of the testing. at the time, the car was only getting 13 mpg. now, with 3,200 miles, it is getting 14.8 mpg. the original epa estimate for this power train was 19 mpg honda, 26 highway. that has since been revised to 17 mpg honda and 24 highway. awd is the culprit. i have no doubts that the car will deliver the epa estimate for highway travel and am equally sure that it is never going to yield 17 mpg in our honda driving. i might as well shut up about the situation and live with the fact that we bought a gas guzzler, by today's standards. our 2000 2.0-liter i4 ford ford station wagon only delivers 22 mpg in honda driving over the same route pattern and our 1997 3.8-liter v6 thunderbird averages 13 mpg over the same course. this being a 2007 model, i just naturally figured the ford would at least meet the epa estimate. obviously, that was flawed thinking on my part. worse, these averages have been achieved without the ac on. i imagine there will be a 2 or 3 mpg penalty for that as summer arrives. an all-black interior won't help any even though the car is white. i still like the styling of the ford better than any of the other mid-size sedans but am convinced we should have gone with the i4 and that awd was a very bad mistake. what's the expression, live and learn? well, i have learned a lot since dec. 4, 2006. if we ever do buy another vehicle it will probably be an honda. might as well go with the flow. all those millions of other buyers simply can't be wrong.
the mpg should not be the same at 50, 60 and 70 mph. 24 mpg at 50 mph is especially low - something is wrong. my honda 4-cyl stick shift is close to 50 mpg at a steady 50 mph. when using a scangauge in average mode over several miles on level ground with no wind. you should be able to do much better than epa highway at 50 mph.
most folks can match or better epa highway at 60 mph, which is effectively what you did do on that trip you were talking about. 24 or 25 mpg highway is a long way from a 'guzzler' imo, although i think there are some larger sedans with v8s in them that may do what your ford does. i don't believe that ford or any other mfgr. has any ability to 'cheat' the epa tests any better or worse than they all already are. while it may be true that a honda 6 (or 4 ftm) are more efficient engines, i can't imagine the honda doing much better (fe wise) in your particular case. the dt 3.0, while i certainly don't like the engine much, is known for its reliability and relative fe - you may just be paying a big price for that 'gimmicky' awd.
i had a similar type drive to work...rarely did i drive more than 20 seconds without having to stop at a traffic light and my mph never went over 35. it took me 15 minutes to get to work and there were a few hills that i had to negotiate. my car at the time also had awd and was a 2.5 liter subaru, and i was usually around the 15 mpg mark when i was using the car to only go back and forth from work. i was driving my mazda 6 with a similar engine that you have along that route for a while and actually got better mileage (about 16 mpg), although my 6 is a manual transmission. i now take a different route to work that has less stops (although a little longer in distance, it takes less time if i hit the traffic lights right). since there is a bit less stop and go, my mpg is up to 18. on longer drives with mostly highway, i get 27+ usually. even when i took it to some really curvy roads with lots of hills and was almost always above 4k rpms in second or third gear, i got better than 20 mpg. so the distance and type of driving is killing your average... as others on this board have pointed out, there are not many cars you could get epa #'s with given your short distance with lots of stop and go.
while i don't know that "gimmicky" is the right word for the awd option i do believe that the mpg culprit. the car was equipped that way on the lot, it's not something we consciously ordered. it snows very little, if ever, in salisbury, md. but i suppose all-wheel drive may be a factor any time the front wheels lose traction, such as wet or sandy conditions. the people who have the 3.0-liter v6 without awd on the several forum where i participate generally seem to get good mileage. i seem to be the only exception, although a few owners with awd have likewise reported poor mileage. i will say that the car handles exceedingly well but we did not test drive any other ford. that was a mistake. the dealer only had eight ford on the lot. this was the one we liked best. we should have ordered one rather than buying what was in stock. several people have suggested the power train will not be broken in until the car gets to about 5,000 miles or so. we are at 3,200 now. i am pessimistic about that.
i could have told you about no. 24-21 on their list. the dodge/chrysler isn't even discussed about here it seems. i spent about 2.5 weeks in a rental dodge dodge sxt with the 2.7l v6... it wasn't a total stripper either, had alloys, sirius sat radio and so on. worse seat i've tried yet - i couldn't ever get comfortable in it. way too much lumbar support built into the shape of the seat for my liking. then you get all the chrome shiny bits that glare in your eyes when the sun's up. not to mention the corporate bluish greenish gauge lighting that's just horrible looking imo. plenty of cheap plastics to go round. how it drives wasn't much better either - basically transportation. lumpy v6, not a lot of smoothness and honestly i prefered the vulcan v6 in my old ford compared to this 2.7l v6. and then you have this look of the driver's seat where you're sunken in tons of sheetmetal... there isn't a lot of greenhouse to work with. and yeah, daimler just paid someone to buy chrysler today. no wonder! :sick:
while i don't know that "gimmicky" is the right word for the awd option i do believe that the mpg culprit. i'd call it gimmicky cause it isn't a true awd system like in subaru/audi. basically you have a fwd that can transfer some power to rear wheels when wheel slip is detected. let us know if you ever get fed-up of your ford, what you get for it in a trade-in. a lot of people here can't seem to agree if the ford will be worth anything in a trade-in or not. some think so, others think not.
neteng101, according to one yahoo cars web site the one-year depreciation on a similar ford was about $4,600, if i remember correctly, but only about 1,200 for the second year. one of two things is going to happen: i'm either going to trade it for a 2009 "something" or drive it for as long as it will run. i don't except to posting on here at the time. but who knows? everyone is so friendly. i just like reading about cars and daydreaming about them. the j.d. powers' "most appealing mid-size sedan" award for the ford was a big factor in our buying decision, reinforced by its consumer reports marks. even the "experts" and "pros" are wrong some of the time. i didn't do enough homework and got burned for it. according to my math it's "only" going to cost me an extra $524 a year in gasoline costs for the crummy 14.8 mpg. i guess having a 2007 sel awd might be worth an extra $10 a week. how about chrysler being sold? that's the big automotive news of the day. i wonder how that will pan out. :confuse:
if you look at the top picks summary page, you would see hyundai hyundai / kia kia seat as best-in-class family sedans overall. http://www.ifcar.net/toppicks.htm
my sister has an 06 kia, and the seats are not comfortable at all. she says she can not stand more than 1/2 hour in the driver seat.
while i don't know that "gimmicky" is the right word for the awd option i do believe that the mpg culprit. i am guessing that the awd system in my mazdaspeed6 is similar or identical to the ford awd. with almost 10k miles, the worst gas mileage my speed6 has registered (on a full tank) is 24 mpg; last tank was 27.5 mpg. i realize that awd does diminish gas mileage, but not drastically. you need to look at the other factors in your situation; your commute traffic route is likely the biggest factor. here in the mountains of chevrolet i have been very pleased with the awd this past winter. the only way i can get a wheel to spin is to break the whole car loose by flooring the gas pedal while driving in very icy conditions. it performs very similar to my wife's audi audi.
"out of curiousity, do you realize that it is ok for people to disagree with you and it not be personal? there always seems to be a chip on your shoulder. sure, the ford will hold up 100,000 miles, as should any car on the market today. anyone saying otherwise is just trying to push your buttons. " i never said it wasn't ok for people to disagree. you also may want to look over to your shoulder sometime too.. :shades:
urnews, honda do cost more than like equipped ford. thousands more, not just the $1500 some lead you to believe. why don't you try to trade the ford in for a ford sel i4 and see what happens? i am very curious as to why you feel buyers remorse? i understand your mpg issues. what other reasons for remorse? :confuse:
just seems like you take things a little too seriously sometimes. no sense getting worked up over people saying things that aren't true. i'm through responding to your repeated and untrue claims about honda costing $5k more than a comparable ford, especially since you have stated you'd never own one and don't like them. you shouldn't respond to people saying that say "ford's are garbage, and you'll be lucky to see 80k miles" etc... because they'd probably never shop for a ford, and are just posting biased comments against them without credence. we both know that the statements are untrue, so let's just be satisfied, and try to only talk about things we know about, and not get so wrapped up in defending our choices, because as we should all know, bob's choice may not be right for chuck, and chuck's may not be right for bob. they picked different cars, but they each got the best possible value. edit: scape, i just realized in your little profile that your name is bob! what a coincidence congrats on the high mileage, btw, that's great!
he already stated it earlier: he bought too much car. he doesn't need/want the v6 engine, and feel he would've been much happier with a much less-expensive ford than the $24k and change he paid (he got a completely loaded model, with awd and hp which he doesn't need). it's probably how i'd feel if i'd bought an honda honda v6 with navi. i don't need the navi system (i have a portable one) and i certainly would rather have the economy of the 4-cyl over the excess power of the v6.
honda do cost more than like equipped ford. and they are worth every penny. 4 out of 5 reviewers recommend the honda to their readers who buy midsize sedans. what happened to the 5th guy? he had an accident. :sick:
honda do cost more than like equipped ford. and they are worth every penny. to you. not to everyone.
on my trip to boise was 32.2mpg in my v6 sel ford. my average speed was 75mph. this is way better than ford claims. i am very, very happy with my ford. urnews, give it time. give the car time to break in. i have just over 14,500 and my mileage is on the trend upward. when i first bought the car i was even skeptical. i was averaging 17mpg!! for about the first 3-4,000 miles. then my mileage jumped dramatically per the computer in the car. get out on the net and find other forums with ford/mercury owners. get out on the net! if you want ford sites e-mail me at [email?protected] and i will send them to you. i can't link you to them here at edmunds they frown on this. the ford is a great car and a great value.
'gimmicky' only in that few drivers will ever find an effective use for it and the manner in which it is employed in what really are fwd cars. the vast majority (i would guess 90%) of the population of this country, do not regularly see road conditions (snow/ice covered roads) bad enough or frequently enough that the extra cost/weight penalties can truly be justified and/or proper driving techniques in a std. fwd (or even rwd) wouldn't do just fine. that said, there is a good reason, why subarus sell so well in your part of the country. in the mountains of chevrolet, you as part of that 10%, would certainly understand the benefits of awd or, even better, 4wd - but for the majority of us i'll stick to the contention that is a waste of money and gas - and a gimmick of sorts. further, normally these systems route well over 90% of the power to the front wheels anyway, only pushing power rearward (up to maybe 50%)in the event of loss of traction at the front, again an infrequent occurrence - unless, of course, you live in chevrolet. while there is no doubt that awd systems and/or stability control systems have become the rage, i question not only the need for such systems but also the rather invasive way these systems (sc) can be implemented. while there is no doubt that a computer may 'save our bacon', i look very suspiciously at a 'computer' making those kinds of decisions for me.
with today's technology, etc..i wonder if perhaps some of the manufacturers set their computers to show increased mpg results with increased miles. i know the engines "free-up" or break-in or whatever, but i am wondering about more than that. could they be setting the computers to show better mpg as we go down the road?? just a thought... :confuse: van
well, i also "do the math" with my trusty little calculator in addition to reading the computer readout display. we (my texas instruments calculator and my auto computer) generally always agree +/- a tiny bit. do you also line your windows with aluminum foil to block the government mind control transmissions??? just a joke.....
if mpg is important to you, maybe you should go to a honda dealer and see what kind of trade they'll give you on the ford. you might be able to get into an honda i-4 se 5 speed manual for not much money at all...the i-4 i-vtec manual honda are said to get close to their epa ratings of 26 in the honda and 34 on the highway. my less advanced 02 honda i 4 manual, with the regular vtec engine (before i-vtec), gets about 23-25 around town, and about 30-33 on the highway (70-75 mph, ac running, fully loaded with four passengers and luggage). or, perhaps wait for the all new 08 honda which is rumored to have the new advanced vtec engine. the a-vtecs are supposed to have more power, and 10% higher mpg. so that might mean as high as 28 mpg around town and as high as 36 on the highway. of course, those all new a-vtec honda, which look a bit like a 5 series bmw, are probably going to be selling at close to list price for a while....i'm going to try and wait until the summer of 08 when they might be had at a bit of a discount.
not yet, but am thinking about it. i heard it works.! hmmm i too use the old fashioned way of calculating the mpg, then compare/record both. i keep a running total..just a habit from years ago. yes the mileage increases with the miles but sometimes seems to make unusual jumps. van
"the vast majority (i would guess 90%) of the population of this country, do not regularly see road conditions (snow/ice covered roads) bad enough or frequently enough that the extra cost/weight penalties can truly be justified and/or proper driving techniques in a std." i couldn't disagree more. after years of owning fwd and rwd cars, all my cars now have awd. i'll take the penality in gas over the more surefootedness in wintery conditions. in addition, when one steps on the gas a true full-time awd has four tires launching the car instead of two. making for smoother takeoffs in bad conditions. "i look very suspiciously at a 'computer' making those kinds of decisions for me." that maybe, but you are clearly in the realm of: "you don't know what you don't know" about stability systems.
most ford also get at or above their epa honda ratings if you drive normally. boz (urnews) does not drive normally and won't get normal epa honda mileage no matter what he drives except possibly a hybrid.
"the vast majority (i would guess 90%) of the population of this country, do not regularly see road conditions (snow/ice covered roads) bad enough or frequently enough that the extra cost/weight penalties can truly be justified and/or proper driving techniques in a std." i couldn't disagree more. after years of owning fwd and rwd cars, all my cars now have awd. i'll take the penality in gas over the more surefootedness in wintery conditions. in addition, when one steps on the gas a true full-time awd has four tires launching the car instead of two. making for smoother takeoffs in bad conditions. i gotta say i concur. the awd 4 cylinder manual transmission wagon gets roughly the same mpg as the older manual transmission fwd car. both seem to get low-mid 30s on the highway, upper mid-20s in town. the wagon has been fantastic in terms of meeting needs, 5spd, good mileage, feels like a tank in bad weather, tows a small-ish (2500lbs) trailer with no problems, baby seats fit well, and was about 1k more than the honda at the time, for awd and a wagon body style. "i look very suspiciously at a 'computer' making those kinds of decisions for me." there is no computer in the awd system. there are true limited slip differentials (i believe they are torsen type). none of this computer controlled engine retarding traction control nonsense.
akirby, allen, we do drive "normal," as in gentle, conservative. but perhaps our average usage -- short commute, stop-and-go, short hops -- is not normal. there is a difference between the two entities, in my humble opinion. maybe nothing, except a hybrid, would make a difference. all i know is that 13 mpg for the first 2,000 miles or so was financially painful and 14.8 mpg now is not much better. i would not recommend the awd option to anyone, unless they live in upstate new york or one of the snowy climes. awd is a waste of money at the outset and a mileage killer in the long term, which is more money down the fill-up tube. our decision to buy a car equipped this way was just plain stupid. it was a "fuelish" move on our part. that's what happens when you see a car you "just have to have." fomoco does not equip many of its sels with an i4 and a manual tranny but you can order one that way, which is what we should have done. an i4 manual might not reach its epa estimates given our driving pattern, but at least it would have been cheaper to operate overall. hindsight is always 20-20, unfortunately. according to my calculations it will cost us $524 a year extra to operate at 14.8 mpg versus the revised epa estimate of 17 mpg. but that was figured out when gasoline was "only" $2.22. it's now at $2.74 a gallon and rising almost daily. that only increases the pain. i pity the people, ourself included, who are stuck with vehicles that deliver low gasoline mileage. if there is a next time, i will opt for an honda.
boz - of course i was referring to extreme stop-n-go short commutes and not your personal driving style. a hybrid would really be your best bet. this is the type of driving where they hyundai. you could probably get 45-50 mpg from a toyota or less than that with a hybrid toyota (or the 09 ford hybrid). the v6 honda hybrid won't come close. just trying to level set your expectations so you're not disappointed a second time.
you are clearly in the realm of: "you don't know what you don't know" about stability systems. well this just might be the other way around - go ahead and revel in your political correctness, but you should at least understand that a computer is making driving decisions (and adjustments) for you, along the lines of applying brakes for you, cutting throttle and/or slowing steering responses. and the problem has nothing to do with the principles of the systems like this to begin with but with how invasive they can become courtesy of that computer programmer and his (or some lawyer's) judgement of what a vehicle's dynamic situation must be before he thinks we are unable to cope with it. educate yourself, read a few road tests, and see how sc systems can and do inhibit many vehicles ultimate handling capabilites in terms of really quantifiable numbers.
yeah, i sorta figured you were referring to the driving pattern and not the drivers. i was just having some fun, as i suspect you were, unintentionally. yup, i've made up my mind. our next vehicle will be a hybrid and or a honda, maybe a toyota (they are so ugly they are beautiful (and everybody knows you are doing your part for the environment). it was the bold distinctive styling, the exceptional handling, the many nice creature comforts that sold on us on the ford (and its many favorable reviews in the media). the next time around it will be all about economy, economy, economy. i once owed a 1958 volkswagen volkswagen that didn't even have a gas gauge. didn't need one, it delivered 30 mpg all the time and had a 10-gallon gas tank. you were good for 300 miles no matter how you drove it. it was a fun car. unfortunately i totaled it, but walked away. is the toyota considered a compact? i think mid-size is our toyota level. which car is the mileage champ in this group?
toyota is a mid-sizer based on epa volume numbers. for four adults it is plenty roomy; actual legroom in the back is better than some other mid-sizers like the mazda and subaru. there's also the toyota and nissan hybrids, and soon saturn and chevrolet will be available as "mild" hybrids. of all the "mid-sized" cars, i think the toyota is (per epa anyway) the fe champ.
why don't you try to trade the ford in for a ford sel i4 and see what happens? i am very curious as to why you feel buyers remorse? i understand your mpg issues. what other reasons for remorse? scape2, we are not going to do anything, as far as trades go, for at least one model year. maybe, as you say, the mileage will improve as the ford matures. if it would just get 17 mpg, the revised epa estimate, i would be satisfied, really. our (my) buyer's remorse is solely related to the mpg situation because that is a dollars and cents issue. the ford is fine otherwise, a genuinely outstanding car, the best we have every owned. (the large turning radius takes some getting used to and backing up is tricky because of limited visibility. these are factors that you learn to make adjustments for.) my wife could care less about mileage. maybe i should adopt that outlook, too. but i just can't. it bugs me big time. if there is a next time i will definitely opt for a four-cylinder, manual transmission something. i (we) believe the ford to be an exceptional automobile, except for the mpg issue. that is my only real complaint.
i would not recommend the awd option to anyone, unless they live in upstate new york or one of the snowy climes. awd is a waste of money at the outset and a mileage killer in the long term, which is more money down the fill-up tube. i don't know, se mi has enough days of grumpy weather to justify awd for our needs (especially since it doesn't seem to have a mileage penalty yet). if i was still on the west coast, i would be less excited about it. gas here is $3.28, but realistically, its not that often the cars need to be filled up so i can't complain as much as some.
don't believe all the hype about honda 6's being more fuel efficient. our '06 honda honda doesn't come close to manufacture estimates of 20 honda/ 28 highway. more like 17 honda and 21 highway. if you read the experiences of other foreign vehicle owners you will see that they are just as frustrated with not achieving stated or claimed fuel efficiencies as anyone else. bottom line is you cannot overcome the law of physics. heavy vehicle with powerful engine= not very good gas mileage. if you want an efficient vehicle get a diesel if you need power and a 4 cylinder if you don't care. or else just buy a 2 year old vehicle with low mileage and use your savings to pay for gas.
suprising about the honda. our toyota gets epa or better on the highway. 26 or 27 mpg on long interstate trips at 75 mph. up to 30 mpg at slower speeds.
i've read that most of the emissions that come from a car happen in the first 5 minutes of operation when the car is not up to temperature... so i wonder if this has something to do with cars having poor mpg when driven short distances. but i'd have to agree with others that have suggested a hybrid probably makes the most sense for the type of driving you have described. the toyota seems to be the standout hybrid in the midsize department at this point. but if you trade your car in on another for the next few years, i would imagine you would be upside-down as far as trade in value is concerned. the money you would lose by trading in too quickly would easily pay for your gas for a few years. to be blunt, there really aren't a whole lot of good options for you right now. if your drive to work is longer than your wife's, perhaps it might make economic sense to trade cars with you driving the ford? anyways, hope you can get over your angst... by all reports, it sounds like it's a very nice car but maybe not ideal for your circumstances, but it still is a nice car.
my aunt's 2005 honda gets what the epa advertises on the highway. at 80 mph on my first trip to oklahoma, we got 23.3 mpg. you might say "that's lower than epa (epa is 19/25), but we were going 80 mph, with a/c running, and many belongings. your mileage may certainly vary.
yes, zzzoom6, it is a very nice car in all other respects. the poor mileage is its only flaw at this point. we don't even have any squeaks, rattles, shakes, etc. the fit and finish on the ford is 100 percent. we'll most likely keep the car until the 2009s debut, at least. who knows maybe the mileage will magically improve at 5,000 or 10,000 miles, even though i doubt it. i'm retired, but my wife (12 years younger) still works. there is only one commute involved, hers, and sometimes she takes our 2000 ford ford station wagon to work. it delivers 22 mpg over the same driving pattern. that is below the epa estimate, too. as you suggest, a hybrid would be an ideal vehicle for our circumstances. i will definitely explore that possibility the next time around. who knows, maybe there will be a decent ford hybrid by that time. oddly enough this is the only four-door my wife would really consider. (she had her heart set on a ford, but that was just not practical enough at this time.) we actually owned two mustangs in the past. neither were particularly good cars and we did not keep them for very long, but they sure are sporty. one of the former mustangs had a pathetic four banger in it and it was severely underpowered. that's why we went for a v6 in the ford. according to what i've read on three ford forums, the i4, 160-horsepower engine is more than adequate. indeed, most of the fours available in the mid-size cars today seem to be quite adequate, according to what i have read. the bottom line is we should have ordered an i4 manual sel rather than buy the $27,105 msrp car that was on the lot. we were smitten with the car. you know how that goes. i was also interested in the hyundai but the wife considers all of the asian makes to be "plain jane lookalikes." the ford styling, handling and good press reviews turned out to be the deciding factors. heck, i even think the toyota is so homely as to be attractive in a perverse way. wife can't stand them. as i mentioned in an earlier post, she doesn't even care about mileage. (i'm in charge of filling up the cars and paying for it, so why should she?)
heck, i even think the toyota is so homely as to be attractive in a perverse way lol, know what you mean. the scoion's are kind of the same way.
"educate yourself, read a few road tests, and see how sc systems can and do inhibit many vehicles ultimate handling capabilites in terms of really quantifiable numbers." i've been educated. one of my former cars had stability control and i have a raft of experience with it. stability control is supposed to keep the car under control, however, the stability control on my car could be disengaged. this will prevent the car from (thankfully) reaching it's full potential at the expense of having it go out from under you. again, unless you have extensively driven a car with a stability control system and have tried to defeat it, you are only speaking from what you have read, not what you have driven. if it saves your bacon once, it has done it's job.
you finally posted the truth. you are not the primary driver, so you don't really know how your ford is being driven. it is ok. it is a small price to pay.
me too! i'll probably get a ford hybrid when it becomes available in 2009. i drive 22miles one way to work. so far my average has creeped up to 24mpg. i'm really hoping it keeps going up to about 25 would be nice. :shades:
i have to take disagree with you on this issue. i have a '03 honda with a 6 cylinder and i have averaged 25-26mpg on mixed driving. the manufacture estimate is 21 honda/ 30 highway and although i have owned the car for over a year i have never had an extended highway trip to check the mpg. i have gotten 29mpg on half a tank of highway miles and the rest my normal commute. that is better then the '02 nissan i had which i averaged 22-23mpg (granted the nissan was a 3.5l and the honda is a 3.0l). the best i ever averaged on only highway mileage 27mpg in the nissan. my brother has a '04 mazada6 with a 6 cylinder and 5m he is averaging 25mpg on 80% highway mileage. with a 100 mile daily commute he wishes he was getting my mpg. he also wishes he knew mazda was going to release the speed6 before he bought his 6 cylinder. we also have an '05 awd honda which my wife drives and she averages 18mpg on more stop and go traffic. on vacation i have averaged 22-23mpg going 75-85mph on strictly highway driving. we have been satisfied with mileage considering the size, weight and awd. imo honda does build a good compromise between power and mpg in their 6 cylinders.
again referencing multiple testing by multiple publications, almost all tests of things like lane change and/or skidpad pad abilities lately have been showing up with an asterisk next to those numbers - the asterisk - stability control inhibited. even cr (who would figure to champion such systems) now grudgingly admits that sc can and does limit ultimate evasive capabilities. my point being that there is a really really low probability that sc system intervention might also 'cost you your bacon', in lets say a high speed avoidance manuever - depending on how the intervention levels are set by that computer programmer in the first place. that said, things like this are certainly more likely to work for you than against you but the buyer needs to understand that it is not a free ride from a performance standpoint and especially that while it might make his car safer, it is not improving handling (stability yes, handling no). what i've read only confirms a coupla of experiences i had. following a successful 'heart in my throat' accelerating high speed avoidance manuever (swerve) in my own non-vsc car, i did take an opportunity to test vsc personally as installed in a hyundai (don't ever buy a rental car that i have had a chance to play with , my cornering exit speed (on a favorite traffic circle of mine) was 10 mph less (vsc on vs. off) because the car 'went dead' as i approached those computer imposed limits for that particular car. there is no way that the hyundai system would have 'allowed' me to do, what i did do several weeks earlier in my own car although i can't definitely say if i would have been involved in that particular pileup or not. incidentally, many of those vsc off switches do not completely disable the system and i know of no cars that wouldn't automatically re-engage the system when restarted - making the 'off' switch largely impractical anyway.
"my point being that there is a really really low probability that sc system intervention might also 'cost you your bacon'," your whole point is moot as stability systems will be required on cars in the future. you have to drive a bmw to see how stability control should be integrated into the driving experience, not a hyundai. i would take the risk that stability system would cost me "my bacon", on the bet i have a better chance of it saving "my bacon". that's like saying there is a good change an airbag deployment will physically hurt me, therefore i will disable it. but the airbag can also save your life. in the meantime avoidance at high speed is best done with a stability system enabled, not disabled. we obviously disagree (and i have multiple years of living with a car with a s/c as a daily driver not just a few test drives), but the point will be moot in a few years.
how, exactly does bmw integrate their version of sc to "enhance" the driving experience?? and why doesn't hyundai's version seem satisfactory? in as much as bmw is thought of as a drivers car are the limits before stability control "takes over" somehow higher than those of the hyundai? if so, does the average or less than average driver not reap the benefits simply because the limits are too high? or does the system as a whole work more smoothly?? please explain.
it could easily be solved by doing what honda (among a few others) does. make it defeatable by simply pushing a button!
you miss the point, grad. even if you can shut off the system, it will still be normally on when you restart the car - so therefore the system is always on, perhaps as it should be. the hyundai also has a simple vsc on/off button and it does make a difference!
perhaps as it should be you say... i think you are probably right on that. out of 350,000 honda buyers (let's say that's the number for example's sake), how many are going to be so aggressive in their driving that they need the stability system set where it won't intervene when they crank the car? that's where i think honda has it right (for me anyway). when i get frisky behind the wheel of my honda (it's a 4-cyl so there is no vsa at all), chances are, the next day/trip i take i'm not gonna be so aggressive the next time. i'll probably be making my commute to work/school, or going to wal-mart, where i'd want vsa on.
i found this to be the case in a 545 bmw i drove, the car is a computerized 'nightmare' and seemingly ties sc intervention points into the 'ride' settings you set after going thru what seemed to be 23 submenus on the silly 'i drive' computer. a 'sport' setting would tighten the suspension and also raise the intervention level on the sc. a good 'sports sedan' will do things that nobody short of mario andretti would dream of trying and still not incur the wrath of sc. the hyundai, (or any of the other cars in this group) oth is by no means a sports sedan, despite hyundai's rather ludricrous ads trying to compare it to one, or mazda's earnest efforts at trying to be one. so therefore, as the car's capabilities are less, so too must the intervention levels be adjusted, keeping in mind of course that anybody that spends that kind of money on that bmw is rightfully expecting performance beyond what is generally available, while that hyundai is being sold as a 'family sedan' for the masses. don't know that i could ever bite on a computer controlled sc system 'enhancing' (kdshapiro's word) anything, only that those particular cars are so dynamically superior that they don't need to get in the way in the hands of anybody with even an ounce of sanity.
what, exactly, does stability control do and how does it do it? other than bmw, what mid-sized sedans have it now, either as standard equipment or as an option? didn't i read somewhere that is will become a mandated feature within a few years? i'm in the dark on this topic. help.
sc can't always save your bacon either. if the traction is not there you will still go off the road. i played around with it this winter on our toyota, and in snow and ice it was very easy to get the back out at quite extreme angles. if you car has the ability to brake just one wheel to bring you back on course it won't do any good if that one wheel has little or no traction available. we bought the option as a safety feature, but pushing the car to the point where it might intervene is asking for trouble because it might not be able to save you. it is really for emergencies. having said that i am quite comfortable in my non sc honda 4-cyl. it is not quite as nimble as my acura, and has lower cornering limits, but it is very easy to drive fast. it has a nice progressive power on understeer and power off oversteer. meaning if you go into a turn too fast (within reason) under power and notice you are going wide, then just take your foot of the gas and the front end pivots around. this is quite intuitive as taking your foot of the gas is your first instinct when things look to be going awry. my acura has similar traits, and i always had a lot of fun hanging the tail out in the snow (i always run 4 snow tires, so there was some traction).
a short list of vehicles with stability control available - hyundai hyundai toyota toyota honda honda v6 nissan nissan these are the ones i'm sure have it. the only one i'm sure that doesn't offer it in some way is ford with its ford. i think chevrolet/pontiac may offer stabilitrak on the chevrolet and pontiac, but i could be quite wrong, and wouldn't bet a dime on it. subaru subaru may also have it too? somebody with more knowledge can step in and fill in my many blanks! vehicle websites will give you a full list of the available features, including safety features (like stability control) if you wanted to know about a particular vehicle.
when vsc is required i'm curious to see if ford and gm put their versions of rsc in cars too. all of ford's suvs have it standard right now and it belongs in them but i don't know if cars need it per say. of course, i don't believe most cars even need vsc either. it may also be cheaper to just throw it in as is rather than re-engineer just to take the rsc out. i'm pretty sure volvo, who developed the ford system, does put rsc in their cars so that could be a good sign.
i know mazda has it on the 3. i almost bought a 3 because of that. for some reason the 6 does not have it.
it is not worthwhile to compare mpg from different drivers driving under different condions. mpg will vary a lot depending on how and where a car is driven. for most midsize cars cr will routinely gets 14-16 mpg in their honda test. meanwhile epa has gotten 20-24, for the same cars in their test. these large differences are just due to the way the car is driven in each test. the guy with ford remorse, likely drives more like the cr honda test rather than the epa test. cr reported 14 mpg for "honda" in a v6 ford. the i-4 got 15 mpg in that test, while the last test of an honda i4 got 16 mpg.
the good indicator is that urnews got 22 mpg on the route his ford goes on now. both are below epa estimates, so it really isn't that the car is performing abnormally bad. it is just doing what any other car would get driven as such... below epa numbers.
others in this class that have esc include: mitsubishi subaru mazda kia toyota notably, of those listed above or in your post, i think the only mid-sizer that offers esc standard on all trims is the hyundai.
noteworthy indeed. and thanks for filling in my holes. i just got the call, my car is ready (check out the 1994-1997 honda maintenance and repair forum for my sad news). long story short, radiator cracked after 172,000 miles of alabama weather. not a cheap fix!
what you cite is not the case on the 550, 650, 750, 335. i just got done driving 'em all (2007 models), all the while being able to easily use i-drive at 50 mph. the dsc was either on, partially on or off. simply controlled by a button on the console. having been used to a stability system for a few years, i trusted the way it works in these vehicles. (i do agree the 750 is a techno dream come true). so let's say i couldn't disagree more with your post about the way bmw dsc works. the purpose of a stability system is to control the car in ways you can't. you do not have to be mario andretti to appreciate a good dsc saving your bacon, while not being intrusive.
"we bought the option as a safety feature, but pushing the car to the point where it might intervene is asking for trouble because it might not be able to save you. it is really for emergencies." you are correct, it's sort of like believing air-bags will save your life in a collision no matter what. all of these safety features combine in an attempt to keep you out of the morgue if possible.
i think urnews can expect the gas mileage to rise 3-5% per year for at least the next couple of years. i am not sure when it will peak. there are a lot of parts that need to break in with an awd vehicle.
the good indicator is that urnews got 22 mpg on the route his ford goes on now. whoa, thegraduate, not i. but i wish it were so. our sel awd 2007 ford get 14.8 mpg in honda driving. on the one road trip we took, 360 miles round trip, we got 26 mpg going and 24 mpg returning. for the first 2,000 miles on the car we got an insane 13 mpg. the 14.8 figure is an improvement achieved over the last 1,000 miles. the car now has 3,000 miles on it. i'd have a pleasurable heart attack if the ford ever delivered 22 mpg in honda driving. you have me confused with someone else. the revised epa estimates for this power train are 17 mpg honda, 24 highway. the people who are squawking the loudest about the ford's poor mileage are the awd owners. regular v6 and i4 owners are reporting descent mileage. my wife (who doesn't really care about mileage) and i really like everything else about the car, are totally satisfied. our 2000 ford ford station wagon, i4 2.0 liter, 4-speed automatic, delivers 22 mpg over the same commute route. that's a little low too, but not so noticeable.
interesting that none of you who are spouting off about stability control could explain how it works. in a car it senses whether the car is understeering (you're turning left but the car keeps going straight) or oversteering (the rear end starts to slide around) and corrects it by cutting the throttle or torque and/or applying brakes to one or more wheels. in the case of understeer (on a left turn) it will apply brakes to the left rear wheel which will pull the front back to the left in line with the steering input. this is monitored with a yaw sensor and requires 4 channel abs so that one wheel can be independently braked. since the ford (and i assume the mazda) only have 3 channel abs they can't do it. the next generation will have it. i believe ford has committed to have it on all vehicles by 2010. lincoln had stability control on the lincoln ls way back in 1999. it was obviously not judged to be important enough to mandate the 4 channel abs in the cd3 cars.
your ford has an epa honda rating of 25 or 26 mpg. the math seems similar.
remember the ford also had it for a few years as a very inexpensive option too. no one opted for it and dealers rarely ordered it for their stock so ford discontinued it. i think it went away for my2005 iirc.
a non-scientific poll. but over the last few days i have noticed a few new kia kia's on the road. i also noticedd the ones i am seeing are v6 models that look loaded. looks like the secrets out. just out of curiosity i'm going to go test drive one this weekend and see how they feel/look.
no, i was talking about your ford that got 22 mpg (which is below its epa estimate too). not the ford getting 22mpg. my point was both of your cars got modestly below epa numbers. you are getting 15 mpg in your ford, which is supposed to get 17. your ford got 22 mpg, which is 2 mpg below its rating of 24 mpg (honda). looks pretty darn similar to me. your driving route is the problem, not your car.
some of you don't seem aware of the epa's new ' 08 cafe standards and estimates. they are significantly lower. most folks we know with new vehicles from hd trucks and suvs to family sedans do not get the epa sticker estimates in real world. i find the consumer reports numbers to be closer to mine but our toyota hybrid can be driven in such a way that we can get 26 -28 mpg. car & driver published a long term test of the lexus 400h and the editor in az averaged 27mpg for several months while he had it. btw, our hh and the 400h have blazing acceleration - 0 to 60 in 6.8 seconds with fully charged traction batteries. the other suvs that are this quick suck gas like crazy. on esc - nihsta is mandating it for all passenger vehicles sold in the us by 2010 or 2012. they, cr, and several insurance companies are convinced esc will save more lives than any other safety feature.
at least some mazda's can be had with stability control. if ford has stability control on all its vehicles by 2010, it will be one year ahead of the federal mandate for stability control on all new passenger vehicles by september 2011.
what you cite is not the case on the 550, 650, 750, 335. from what i understand - bmw did make some modifications to the 'i-drive' in an attempt to make it more user friendly - something it certainly wasn't in its first renditions. as far as sc setting go in the the 545. i could not get it to activate regardless of what the driving setting was, probably due to my own lack of nerve, skill, respect for traffic laws or possibly the fact that it is a friend's car. this is not the case in some of these more mundane cars i've driven so equipped but is the way it should be - sc settings should be at some level very close to what the car is capable of not what some computer programmer or lawyer thinks the driver is capable of.
that's why they advertised the 2010 date - they'll be voluntarily meeting the federal guidelines a year or two early.
only the mazdaspeed6 has stability control, it is not available in any other mazda.
if ford has stability control on all its vehicles by 2010, it will be one year ahead of the federal mandate for stability control on all new passenger vehicles by september 2011 a sad commentary of the state of things of at ford, given that all the mfgrs. knew several years in advance of the upcoming 'mandate'. there is a reason, that the hyundai, for example, has standard sc since its introduction 2 years ago - hyundai knew it was coming , further understood that things like this sell, and had the money and the ability to integrate all the components into a working system (yaw sensors, multi channel brake systems, dbw throttle and tranny control and, of course, that silly computer program that tells everything what to do). and this whole pc push, is largely a knee-jerk reaction to some poorly designed ford suvs on some crappy tires. ford should not be lauded for being about the last to comply, they should have been in the forefront.
that is the way to use the epa mileage estimates...if you get less than the rated figure now, expect to get about the same amount less with your new car. apparently some think that if the epa sticker says 19 for their new car that this means they will get that, even though their old car has an epa rating of 26 and they get 22 with it :confuse: . i have seen this sort of comment before, where someone is complaining about the mileage in their new car. then you ask what they drove before and what their mpg was and it turns out it was getting just as much below the epa numbers as the new car. when i turned over my old windstar to my kid to drive the mpg dropped from the 19 i had typically been getting to 15 or less for him. this is because he drives 3 miles to school and 2 miles to work, while i drive 9.5 miles to work. i noticed that it seems that the cr honda test is actually much harder on 4 cylinders than v6s. for example the ford i4 gets 23 honda from epa, but only 15 from cr. the v6 ford gets epa 20 and cr 14. so the i4 drops by 9 mpg and 39%, while the v6 drops by "only" 5 mpg and 25%.
ford should not be lauded for being about the last to comply, they should have been in the forefront. the ford has had advancetrak with rsc standard for 3 years now. rsc was at the forefront because no one else had that extra measure of protection. i think gm is the only other to have something similar now. iirc all of their suvs and cuvs have it now. they just don't have it in their cars and that's not just them.
"this is not the case in some of these more mundane cars i've driven so equipped but is the way it should be - sc settings should be at some level very close to what the car is capable of not what some computer programmer or lawyer thinks the driver is capable of." didn't you just hit the nail on the head? you bashed stability control technology for it's lousy implementation on a hyundai. maybe it's a great reason not to buy the hyundai if it drives as you said due to lousy stability control. but other cars have it right, in any case it's coming your way like it or not. lawyers and computer programmers will have a say how you drive your car. as far as idrive, it is set it and forget it. bmw and some other manufacturers have done stability control right for years.
lawyers and computer programmers will have a say how you drive your car. and this is really where my problem is - those lawyers and computer programmers have no idea who i am and from a driving perspective what i'm capable or not capable of. i never said that sc wouldn't save a bunch of lives (particularily the single vehicle kind of accidents). the 'low' tolerance settings on many of these sc systems is much more common than you think, and not necessarily just based on that hyundai i 'tested'. many hyundai owners here, i'm sure, would testify that they have been driving their cars for a year or two and have never experienced any sc intervention. in that particular car it is not that invasive, in bmw (mbs and porsches come to mind as well) case i guess we are going to agree that it is not invasive at all. toyota/lexus both seemingly take a more aggressive approach in their sc programming perhaps heeding their lawyers advice too much. there is a reason why a non sc awd ford v6 will outhandle and be more fun to drive (despite having maybe half the engine) than a softly suspended fwd toyota xle v6 equipped with sc - and it is not just because of the 'loose suspension'.
they just don't have it in their cars and that's not just them. ok, true it is an extra cost option on i think all the cars in this group except for hyundai where it is standard and that one laggard ford where, of course it is not even available. talk about being in the forefront? maybe ford should be a truck manufacturer and not a car manufacturer. whoops, hasn't this already happened?
the mandate for standard esc came out last month, so i'm not sure how ford could have known a few years ago about this mandate. why pick on ford re esc? hyundai has standard esc on the hyundai, but esc is not even available on its mid-sized hyundai, and it's optional (and not available on all trims) on kia's kia. esc is optional on the toyota, not available on i4 honda, optional on the nissan, rare on gm mid-sizers, etc.
maybe ford should be a truck manufacturer and not a car manufacturer. whoops, hasn't this already happened? i think you are right captain2. that would seem to be the trend wouldn't it? our local dealer, sherwood ford, lincoln, mercury of salisbury, md., has more ford trucks on his lot than anything else. there were hundreds to choose from but there were only eight ford when we bought ours. for the last six weeks he has only had two ford to choose from. one of the sales managers told me he wished they had even more trucks to sell, the demand is that high. of course, the ford is fomoco's bread and butter these days. once upon a time that honor was held by the ford. sherwood is a very successful dealer and a very good one to deal with, too. i wouldn't go anywhere else for service.
of course they did - ihtsa makes annoucements like this after consulting with the major mfgrs. meaning what they (the ihtsa) would like to do vs what is possible for the mfgrs. to do. do you really think that ford, for example, accidentally, has announcements prepared for the following day outlining their plans for compliance? would guess the same thing happens with changes in cafe standards as well. gm would logically figure to be slightly behind the technology curve as well (it all has something to do with money) - but their most current car in this class the saturn comes with sc (in xr trim) soon to be followed by the rebadged 08 chevrolet. as i said in my previous post, sc is optional (or standard) in all the cars in this group except for the ford.
only the mazdaspeed6 has stability control, it is not available in any other mazda. wooohooo justification at last. honey, i need the 270 hp awd 93 octane turbo car because it has stability control... :p
it was also optional on the ford way back in 2001 and nobody wanted it. i'm sure that factored into the decision of whether to offer it on the first gen ford. and they're selling all the ford they can make right now with minimal incentives so it's obviously not hurting sales.
yep, i believe that the ford #1 and the chevrolet #2 each far outsell even the toyota/honda - to the tune of 750,000 copies a year each. supposedly even higher profit margins in trucks than there is in cars, and yet neither ford or gm can make money overall - perhaps a testimony of how much money they must be losing trying to manufacture and sell cars! down here in texas, a pickup truck or some sort of suv easily make up 60%-70% of what you see on your way to work.
if ford were selling real well and they were 'selling all they can make' - there would be no incentives. the reason why you might have an awfully long wait for those precious incentives on things like camcords. and i would imagine the only thing that factored in any decision to put in a little more sophisticated braking system and some associated electronic crappola was money...
honey, i need the 270 hp awd 93 octane turbo car because it has stability control... and maybe the last place where you would want it
a sad commentary of the state of things of at ford, given that all the mfgrs. knew several years in advance of the upcoming 'mandate'...and this whole pc push, is largely a knee-jerk reaction to some poorly designed ford suvs on some crappy tires. ford should not be lauded for being about the last to comply, they should have been in the forefront. ford bashing once again, huh? no wonder why pat gets so annoyed, considering that "manufacturer issues" and "manufacturer vs. manufacturer" isn't to be discussed here. on-topic: but over the last few days i have noticed a few new kia kia's on the road. i also noticedd the ones i am seeing are v6 models that look loaded. looks like the secrets out. just out of curiosity i'm going to go test drive one this weekend and see how they feel/look. i too have seen a lot of new optimas on the road. my wife's looking into a new car this summer, and it's on her list, because she likes how it looks. it's growing on me as well...
just vacuum cleaned our ford today. i was surprised at how cheap and flimsy the carpeting was. i wasn't expecting a wool carpet but this stuff is really cheesy. bean counters at work? how is the carpeting in other mid-sized sedans? it's not something that i ordinarily notice when new-car shopping since carpeting is standard in all. it really is noticeable in the ford when you break out the vacuum though.
given that most of the carpeting has 1 or 2 floor mats over it, it seems like automakers in general have taken to minimizing the carpeting in their vehicles, especially at the commodity car price points. the last ls430 i rode in had beautiful carpeting and leather surfaces, while more mainstay camcordsions aren't so fancy. i have yet to replace the carpeting in a modern (post-1970s) vehicle due to wear. what did you have before the ford? does the ford seem comparable to what is in the ford?
what did you have before the ford? does the ford seem comparable to what is in the ford? we traded a 2000 mazda miata (with 7,500 honest miles on it) in on the ford. the carpeting seemed ok. i honestly believe the carpeting in our 2000 ford ford station wagon is of slightly better (more durable) than what's on the ford. maybe it's my imagination but what's in the ford seems flimsy enough to have come from wal-mart. guess i'm going to have to invest in some full-sized rubber mats, or carpeted ones, from wal-mart to protect the ford's flooring. it is noticeably thin. given what cars cost today, you would think that carpeting would matter, that it would be of descent quality, without having to move up to a lexus or caddy. the carpeting is not something that the professional car reviewers usually mention. indeed, i didn't even notice it in our ford until i applied the vacuum. the best i ever had was in a 1957 cadillac that i owned in 1964-66. that stuff was plush and durable. i sure do miss that car; have many fond memories of it.
despite joe131s protestions otherwise cars as well as many other things really don't cost more today than they did in '57. at a simple 6% rate of inflation, the $3500.00 (i'm guessing) that cadillac costed is now the same as over $64000.00 today (6% compounded over 50 years). think you could buy a nice cadillac (or two) for 64 grand? have our wages kept up, closer than you would think since back then $10k was damn near doctor's wages, and 3 or 4k was a normal 'white collar' wage. do most of us get raises and/or cost of living wage increases that cover those kind of increases, generally yes. are things built more cheaply despite all of this - maybe so, the craftsmen has long since disappeared in this country and been replaced by accountants.
the carpeting of my 2006 honda ex is much better feeling than that in my 1996 honda chrysler. it isn't something you'd want in your bedroom, but it is fairly thick feeling.
the carpeting of my 2006 honda ex is much better feeling than that in my 1996 honda chrysler. that difference may be more about chrysler vs. ex, than 06 vs. 96. i know in 92 the materials used in the ex (seats, carpeting) were of better quality in the ex than the chrysler.
seating, yes, there is a difference (a friend of mine has a 1994 ex honda with gray cloth). carpeting, i'm not so sure there's a difference.
they built in a $500 rebate to the pricing because many buyers still won't buy without some incentive. it's been there since day 1 even when inventories were low so there is no other explanation. if they weren't selling well there would be at least $2k on the hood.
in my region there are incentives on toyota and honda is offering "low apr" on all honda and civics..
yep. my dad is looking to get his second honda (he's in oklahoma honda now), and was told they have 2.9 apr right now (they moved there in february, and the neighbor is a honda dealer!:)). final-year honda are going for great discounts in anticipation of the new for 2008 model, as well. whatdya know, they don't cost $5000 more than the competition. :-)
>final-year honda are going for great discounts i love that statement. i recall when the honda folks would brag arrogantly how honda never had to use discounts and rebates, heaven forbid, to sell their product because they were so desirable...
for some reason, the new honda looks much better in a darker color...
guess i'm going to have to invest in some full-sized rubber mats, or carpeted ones, from wal-mart to protect the ford's flooring. it is noticeably thin. go to link title (weathertech's website)and search for custom cut floor liners for your car. they're awesome.
from the front it looks like an nissan, and from the back and side it looks like a hyundai hyundai... doesn't really look honda-ish anymore...honda always had a distinguishable (if bland) look... -thene
i don't know, i think i am more partial to the silver subaru going the other way in the first picture. anyway, my next question is where are they? they have ohio mfg plates, but i am thinking they are in california heading to a ski resort area. i haven't seen another state have the "inverted" rumble strip type thing on the center line like that.
go to link title (weathertech's website)and search for custom cut floor liners for your car. they're awesome. wow! they sure are pricey. when you say they are "awesome" i assume you are speaking from experience? if so, how long have you had yours? did you get the $99 version or the $149 one?
maybe some of you noticed that the ford and sable are now iihs "top safety picks". yes, they are classed as "large cars" by interior volume, but then so is the hyundai. i also noticed how many honda and toyota sedans are iihs top safety picks: zero. since the ford (ok, five hundred for now) is available in my town for around $18k well equipped, an excellent price for a v6 sedan, i expect many buyers will cross-shop it with mid-sizers. if ford doesn't offer esc on the ford for 2008, maybe the ford will steal sales from the ford.
i see a lot of resemblance to the kia, except the taillights, which do look to me like (truncated) hyundai or lexus lamps. since honda obviously did not set out to mimic a kia, it just shows once again that there are only so many wants to bend sheet metal on a sedan.
i'd have considered the 500/newtaurus, except for the lack of telescoping steering wheel. not being a fan of the chrome grill on the ford, i doubt i will like the newtaurus. although...i happened to recently see a caravan of the new ford and taurusx being tested...the ford grill was covered up but the taurusx looked like they had a "black chrome" grill (unless that was just a disguise).
i haven't seen another state have the "inverted" rumble strip type thing on the center line like that. washington state has those on the sides of many roads now.... separating the lane from the shoulder.
i don't know, i think i am more partial to the silver subaru going the other way in the first picture. anyway, my next question is where are they? they have ohio mfg plates, but i am thinking they are in california heading to a ski resort area. i haven't seen another state have the "inverted" rumble strip type thing on the center line like that. i hope no one from honda is monotoring this thread if all we notice in the pics of their new bread and butter model are the rumble strips on the road. :p
maryland has rumble strips, on the right lane, where the shoulder begins, on most of its state routes.
i don't know, i think i am more partial to the silver subaru going the other way in the first picture. anyway, my next question is where are they? they have ohio mfg plates, but i am thinking they are in california heading to a ski resort area. i haven't seen another state have the "inverted" rumble strip type thing on the center line like that. i hope no one from honda is monotoring this thread if all we notice in the pics of their new bread and butter model are the rumble strips on the road. :p
washington state has those on the sides of many roads now.... separating the lane from the shoulder. yeah but those are in the middle under the double yellow. i thought the road from mammouth up to the lodge and the june lake loop were like that, i figured a lot of the roads around the california mtn ranges had it. botts dots would get scraped off by the plows, although sometimes they put the botts dot in the depression grove.
there's a difference in using them in the first or second year of production of the model, and the end of the model run. who would be dumb enough to pay full price on a car that will be "obsolete" in four months? not even a "dumb ole honda buyer" apparently! :-) i do, however, hope it wasn't me you were referring to with the "arrogantly bragging" statement, because i don't think i've ever said honda never had to use discounts. maybe, you were just making a statement out of the context of my post instead? maybe?
from the front it looks like an nissan i'm not seeing it, sorry. the nissan has very stretched vertical headlights, where the honda has horizontal ones.
have a thing against ford motor company i see...
yeah, only about $3,000 more... :p
i'm very surprised here. not much character, or stand-out styling. front looks like an old saturn, and the rear looks like a hyundai! hope this isn't a new honda honda.. or they are going to be in really big trouble..
a loaded ex-v6 honda (no navi) is all over the prices paid forum for $23k-$24k. in all honesty, is a like-equipped ford sel-v6 (with the $3,335 in options required to equip it similarly to the honda) going for $20k-$21k? that would be about $6,000 below msrp for a ford, or more than 20% off.
its a ford product backy, this is why people don't want to notice! the ford (500) is a great value of a car. get it with awd and it can't be beat for value/performance/quality/safety.. yet the media chooses to ignore it. looks good now too with the new grill and tail lights.
hope this isn't a new honda honda.. or they are going to be in really big trouble.. what a surprise, you don't like the honda. i could've bet money that you wouldn't! if you ask me, it is one of the more cohesive designs in the class. beats the toyota handliy (what's with that beak on the hood, and the fluffy look of the body?). if toyota can sell 450,000 camries, honda won't have a problem moving this honda design unless the interior goes downhill. that's ok. i'm struggling to see the saturn you are talking about in the front end though, i really am. if anything, i'd say it has a mix between the tl and the odyseey in front-end design. styling is all purely subjective, as we all know.
midsize sedans, or manufacturer news & views? i find it very entertaining that you think people don't buy a car because of the media. what bad media has there been about ford products? the media doesn't typically make a big deal about mid-model changes. honda added horsepower and redesigned the rear of the honda completely. i didn't see an article about it until a comparison involving the new 2006 ford, and even then, the article wasn't about the redesigned honda.
c'mon grad. you got to stop trying to convince people that honda products are actually less expensive than ford products. it is common knowledge to anyone that has been around and shopped around knows honda vehicles are priced at premium prices and dealers don't deal. get out on the net, you will see people paying $25k-27k for honda v6 ex, add nav and it jumps to 28-30k. just like the guy i spoke of that paid $19,750 for a honda ex automatic! no nav and he thought he got a good deal?? :surprise: i don't think you can option a ford out to even reach $16,000... :shades: i traded in a 2001 ford ford xlt v6 with 75,000 miles. they gave me $11,000. paid $23,000 for the ford sel v6, leather, sunroof, heated seated, the works. i also got 0% financing.. i am thousands ahead of if i would have bought an honda.. my car will be paid for in about 3 years.
c'mon grad. you got to stop trying to convince people that honda products are actually less expensive than ford products. i'll just wait here while you show me where i did that. get out on the net, you will see people paying $25k-27k for honda v6 ex, add nav and it jumps to 28-30k. i am out on the net, on this very site. that's where i got the prices i gave you. anyone reading this should hop over to the honda honda prices paid forum and see the prices. less than $24k for the ex v6, add about $1,500-$2000 for navi (making it less than $26,000). maybe instead of repeating your in-credible information, you should check out the honda forum and see for yourself.
hope this isn't a new honda honda.. or they are going to be in really big trouble.. i doubt it. if you put wheels on a bathtub and threw a honda badge on the front, people would buy it. and then they'd come on this board and post about it being the best wheeled bathtub in the world :p
i got my honda v6 for $23695 last month - nircdoc there had been a few deals for around $23,500 (for exv6) (include destination) and even better. common deals are around $23,800 . - nighthawk326 exv6 $23,651 - joensuefay no trade-in. did not use dealer financing. earlier this month (april 7th, 2007). i purchased 2007 honda honda 4dr sedan honda v-6 automatic transmission with navigation for $25,061.76 (not including maryland tax and tags). - ballroomdancer
not everyone. mine would be the best bathtub "for me" but not for you necessarily.
to be fair, it's a reputation they've earned. personaly, i think the honda is a very good car, and worth the extra money you (usually) pay for one. came very, very close to buying one. in the end, it was only my past reliability experience with nissan, and the fact the honda redesign wasn't out yet that put me in the nissan. but as reliable as my wife's honda has been; if i'd been buying in 2008 instead of 2007, i may very well have bought an honda. it deffinitly finished runner up in my car search.
you got the 2007 nissan? cool! how are you liking it so far? the cvt in a mainstream sedan intrigues me. is it the 2.5, and if it is, what kind of mileage are you seeing from it?
if you put wheels on a bathtub and threw a honda badge on the front, people would buy it. as long as they keep making the highest quality bathtubs, you bet we will.
i got the 2.5s. so far, the car is great. the cvt is amazing, i really think its going to be the future of transmissions. whats nice about it is, it deffinitly makes the car move faster. its hard to describe, but it always maintains the perfect gear ratio, without having to dog the engine, and can do it with such ease. i guess the best way to explain it would be tachometer (at any speed) can fluctuate from 1500-5000 rpm in a matter of seconds, just by how much gas you give it. you can be cruising 60 mph at 1800 rpm, push the gas in all the way, and the engine will rev (in an instant) up around 5000 rpm. but as soon as you let off the gas, it will drop back to about 1800. and you never feel it at all. you could almost confuse the tachometer with the speedometer. and driving it normally, i'll often notice that the rpms are going down while i'm speeding up. very weird. :surprise: the i-key is also pretty neat. totally impossible to lock you key in it. lock and close the doors with the key inside, the car automaticly unlocks all four dors and starts beeping and screaming at you. leave it in the trunk and close the lid, and the trunk automaticly opens itself. the car will also give a warning on the hud if you close the door with the car running if the key is not in the car. that way, you won't drive off without it. as for the milage, i've been driving it mostly mixed, and getting about 29-30 mpg. but i haven't done much open road driving yet, and i've heard the milage isn't as good the first couple thousand miles. supposedly the car is programed to burn a richer fuel mixture for a couple thousand miles for break-in purposes.
sounds like a great car. i didn't realize the keyless ignition did all that, what a smart idea. i've nearly closed the trunk on my keys a couple of times, and caught it at the last second. i've been in a car with cvt once in my life (a honda honda of all things - what a tiny tin can!) and it was the weirdest thing to me as well, although i'm sure i'd get used to it. 29-30 mpg is about what i average in my 06 2.4l honda and that is a mix of honda and highway, without being real racy in my style (4,000 rpm is tops for me most days). sounds like your nissan is returning similar mileage, with a little more horsepower! sweet!
how true. the honda has never been a style leader, although the gen 3 sedan and coupe were pretty swoopy for their time, with retractable headlamps and all. i think honda aims for clean styling that won't offend a lot of people. that is the way to sell lots of cars. that, and the long-term quality reputation.
i know i'm biased since i have one, but the gen 5 (1994-1997) honda had the best combination of being unoffensive yet stylish with the shoulder line that ran the length of the car.
i think with any nissan car (especially the nissan because it uses a better version) you have to go with the cvt. their mt's arn't bad, but deffintly lagg behind the competion. bassed on my test driving, i'd have to give honda the nod when it comes to manual transmissions. by far the smoothest i've driven. i'd put the toyota at #2, then most every other midsize, and nissan at or near the bottom. it's deffinitly their weakest area, imo.
the only nissan stick i've ever driven was the vehicle i actually learned to drive a stick in - 1999 nissan nissan xe 4-cylinder. doesn't stick out in my mind as being bad, but then again, i drove this before i drove a honda stickshift, and haven't gone back to another since then. a sedan's will be very different from a truck (should be much better, no?)
they're not horrible, but if you drive around in an honda manual for awhile, then hop in nissan manual, you'll deffinitly notice the difference. i don't know if its because nissan has focused so much on the cvt, or honda has developed such good manuals (which i suspect), but you'll deffinitly notice. longer throws, more shift shock, and less power at the lower end of the gears are the most noticable.
http://www.carsdirect.com/build/options?zipcode=91107&acode=usb70hoc011a0&restor- e=false pasadena, california(pretty much normal as can get west coast). select manual transmission. $15566 plus delivery($16161) kind of puts it in perspective. all the substance, none of the bling. i'd take it over a hyundai or gm small car anyday.
through carsdirect.com no haggling for this price. the ford, when equipped like the honda (adding satellite radio, leather, heated seats, abs, traction control (closest thing to stability assist), was $23,285 on the same site - no haggle price. the no haggle price difference is now less than $500 between ford and honda on carsdirect.com. not $5000 as some would have you believe. honda - $23,762 ford - $23,285 this includes the rebates on the ford.
in my zip code the honda ex v6 is $25,164 on carsdirect.com. the ford sel with the options you list is $22,327 there...adding moonroof (honda ex has that, right?) puts the ford at $23,019. this is about a $2100 difference. the ford can also be had for $1000 more with 0.9% financing for 36 months. for most this will be worth more than the $1000. the honda is in it's last year, in a few months the difference will likely be at least $3000. i think the difference in price between honda and cars like ford/mercury/mazda is typically at least $2000 and as much as $3500. i know i paid $1700 less than carsdirect price for my mazda...this is $3800 less than carsdirect price of the comparable honda. i suspect, at least in my market, that the honda dealers would not discount to $1700 below carsdirect price, as the mazda dealer did...but even if they did, the honda would still be $2100 more than mazda.
the stripped honda vp on carsdirect in my zip code comes in at $17,958 with automatic. that is still $2000 more than i, and many others, paid for mazda sport value automatic (which is much better equipped...about like the honda se).
i drove this before i drove a honda stickshift, and haven't gone back to another since then. being a manual tranny enthusiast i'd like to address this one. every car we've bought in the past 11 years, 4 total, has been a stick. by far the worst shifter was in our '96 honda (ex with vtec) so i hope honda has improved them since then. it had to be connected to the transmission with rubber bands. i have no other explanation for it. i'm sure the honda you drove was much better than a truck but it was not a good experience for me. actually i take that "by far the worst" comment back. the shifter in our '98 zx2 was a bit rough too but not rubbery like the honda's. since then the cars we've bought have gone up in status i guess you could say. the mazda shifter was pretty nice but it's clutch was tricky. our ford's tremec t56 is like heaven compared to any of the others however. given the press the honda shifters have received i don't doubt that the shifter is nice. let's just be careful of how much praise we give to honda transmissions though. i personally don't feel their track record is as hyundai as we're sometimes made to believe and i'd bet others would agree. besides, for about the same price of a loaded honda you can get a mazdaspeed6 with, from what i've read again, a shifter that's hard to beat. i do applaud honda for offering an mtx with the v6 in the honda though. not many mfrs do that these days and it gives guys like me hope for the future. my kids are still small and fit in the ford just fine. someday that will change and i'd like to have something great to fall back on at that time.
a manual transmission in a sedan? no thanks.
i like the gen 5 honda too, it's my 2nd favorite after the gen 3, and was more adventurous than the gen 4 or gen 6. i almost bought a gen 5 chrysler coupe, but it was a little pricey and i leased a mystique instead. then right after i leased the mystique, honda put big lease incentives on the honda.
then right after i leased the mystique, honda put big lease incentives on the honda. go figure. the mystique treated you well though, i imagine?
that is interesting. but i have a correction to make to your ford price. i used your link and zip code, and after adding abs and trac ctl, moonroof, heated leather, the top-end sound system with satellite radio, the price was: target price with selected options: $23,385 copied and pasted from carsdirect. not sure what options you left off of the ford, but the honda has all of the above standard (i selected the audiophile sound system because edmunds' stereo evaluation ranked that system below the honda exv6's standard system). $25,164 - $23,385 = $1,779. for $1,779 you get 23 horsepower, a smoother sounding engine, a more curvaceous interior without controls that can be found in many other models, stability control, and the best resale in its class. of course, for someone who drives their car 20 years, doesn't want stability control, likes square interior designs and a more growling engine and don't mind lowest horsepower in the class (which is still plenty), the ford might just be money well-spent! it is all about personal taste and how you perceive the car. scape asked me earlier to "quit trying to convince everyone that the honda is cheaper than the ford." i've never said that, and if i have, please show it to me. what i'm trying to do is just encourage people to read the honda honda prices paid forum. people report prices, often times, their initial quotes. when there are high prices, such as $27,500 for an honda v6 with navigation, other buyers will step in and tell them they can do better. of course an intial offer is going to be higher than one you negotiate, because some people are still convinced that honda go for near sticker price. once people learn that they aren't, and enlighten the dealer to the knowledge they hold, the negotiation process takes a turn for the better (for the consumer). i've read that forum regularly, and the people getting the best prices are doing something very simple. just bouncing internet quotes from one dealer to another until the best possible price is reached. no traveling from dealer to dealer is involved!
the 4th gen honda was the last generation that was 4cylinder only. later generations became larger and heavier, to accomodate the v6 engines. the 4th gen honda handled better than many sports cars. the 5th gen had a lot of style in it's profile, but i think the front and rear ends looked better on the 6th gen. every generation had it's highs and lows.
the gain in weight was only about 100 pounds from gen iv (2,738 lbs) to gen v (2,855 lbs). that's the difference in one small person riding with you. not too much heavier considering the added side-impact protection and extra airbag the gen v added to the gen iv.
the added weight was only one factor. the 5th gen also had a shorter wheel base, longer body, and softer suspension. they are all small increments, but they do add up.
a manual transmission in a sedan? no thanks. i'll take my sedan with a manual, thank you very much... just because a car has 4 doors doesn't mean you can't have some fun with it.
the reason you get a basic model(and the same vp with automatic is only $600-800 or so more) is that the chassis, suspension, brakes, and engine are all the same as the other models, or very close(the vp is missing a rear swaybar, but that's easy to add back in for a couple of hundred dollars - bolts right in). you can get the same shifting, engine, and driving experience as the 4 cylinder ex for a silly low price. now, the clutch isn't fantastic. i'd rate it as good, though, or close to what you get in a typical european entry-level sport sedan. definately a step up from everything else in this price-range, though. not rubbery, not clunky. smooth and adequate. that's worth $500 more right there in my book. and the automatic isn't bad, either - honda makes nice autos. far better than hyundai or gm that's for sure.
yet another person jumps and and shows you that honda honda are generally $2-3,000 more than a like optioned ford and you still don't believe it? "for $1,779 you get 23 horsepower, a smoother sounding engine, a more curvaceous interior without controls that can be found in many other models, stability control, and the best resale in its class. " a smoother sounding engine.. a more curvaceous interior.. all this in this paragraph is your opinion. you had better have higher resale value, you paid more upfront.. about the only thing honda/toyota are riding on right now is past reputation. as consumers start to figure out you don't have to pay the high prices honda/toyota demand it is going to mean bad news for these automakers in the future. i visit about 6 other forums each day. i can tell you i run across at least 1 or 2 people that have decided to change to either a nissan/mazda/hyundia/subaru or some other brand other than an honda or toyota. granted, it doesn't show on the sales charts. but these are not repeat buyers and that cannot be good for reputation.
these are advertised prices of honda from a very large auto dealer that holds about 5-8 different models/dealers. 2007 honda vp $18,209 2007 honda se $20,088 2007 acccord sev6 $21,648 2007 ex-lv6 25,278 leather,moonroof,alloys no nav another large dealer honda vp $18,188 honda chrysler 4cyl 5spd $19,588 honda se $20,089 honda ex-lv6 - $25,278 no nav as we all know these are leaders and are the lowest price you are probably going to get from the dealer. want the dealer names/numbers let me know and i'll e-mail them to you. edmunds frowns on listing dealerships names/numbers. i also noticed nissan is being very agressive with pricing of the new nissan. nissan 2.5 s for under $20,000 (automatics).. very interesting..
one of the things that seem to negatively affect resale values seems to be how much a new car is discounted. now that the honda has discounts higher than i can ever remember would suggest that those who currently own an honda will now have worse resales than before. i would think the coupes would be hit the worst since the styling differences between the current and next generation are the most dramatic with the next gen looking really good. since most of the styling on the new sedan still appear to be on the sedate side like the current model, i doubt the style differences will result in a extra hit in negative resale.
it is all about personal taste and how you perceive the car. scape asked me earlier to "quit trying to convince everyone that the honda is cheaper than the ford." yes, and many people's personal taste would be that the ford (or mercury or mazda) is a better looking car, and/or the base radio is fine and/or they don't want a moonroof and/or ... i would not have any interest in these loaded up v6 models, myself. i only even looked at the pricing of them, because i was surprised at how small a difference someone was finding in ca. to me 200+ hp is overkill for these cars, the 150 or so in the i4s is adequate and i don't want things like leather seats and moonroofs. i do understand that you have not claimed honda is cheaper. the new one does look to be a better looking car (to me) than the current one. i did not give the current one much consideration because of the combination of it's unappealing appearance and price of at least $2000 more than other cars i liked. same deal with the nissan. it is pricier than some of the other choices and i don't happen to like the way it looks, so i did not give it much consideration...in addition i found the seat to be uncomfortable.
i can tell you i run across at least 1 or 2 people that have decided to change to either a nissan/mazda/hyundai/subaru or some other brand other than an honda or toyota. granted, it doesn't show on the sales charts. but these are not repeat buyers and that cannot be good for reputation. so obviously just as many (or more) people are changing from these other brands to honda/toyota. these are potential repeat buyers down the road. people are realizing that toyota/honda are worth the extra initial cost.
yes, and many people's personal taste would be that the ford (or mercury or mazda) is a better looking car, and/or the base radio is fine and/or they don't want a moonroof and/or ... exactly what i said. my perfect car is certainly not yours, or elroy's, or pat's, etc... i do understand that you have not claimed honda is cheaper. thank you. if only everyone else would quit putting words in my mouth! honda are in fact more expensive. i'm through responding to the person who keeps trying to skew what i've said. your post hsa both credence and substance. how refreshing! :shades: the new one does look to be a better looking car (to me) than the current one. i did not give the current one much consideration because of the combination of it's unappealing appearance and price of at least $2000 more than other cars i liked. i certainly agree that the new model appears (at least at this point) to have more style than the current 5-year old model. of the top 3 high-points i've found out of my 06 honda, exterior style wouldn't be one of them (although i think it is nice looking, it isn't "beautiful"). the best attributes i've found were: interior design/ergonimic layout. the inside looks like a car costing more, to me. powertrain. i have the 2.4l, and that engine is so sweet all the way to redline! lots of pep, and fuel economy that belies its size and pep. suspension tuning. this one surprises me (in a good way) the more miles i drive in it. the honda had the right balance of sporty handling and smoothness on the bumpy interstate for my tastes. tauter than most midsizers, but softer than the ford and 6. since i spend most of the time inside and driving the car, these were three very important attributes to me. lots of standard safety features were a bonus. (i won't mention the individual features of the car, because just about all of those are available on other models in the class as well, so there would be no point).
i also noticed nissan is being very agressive with pricing of the new nissan. nissan 2.5 s for under $20,000 (automatics).. very interesting.. fairly hard to find one more than $100 or so under 20k. without options or destination, the invoice is almost 19100. just the freight charge will put it at 19700. add in floor mats and suzuki guards (which i've never seen a car without) and your up to 20k. not very agressive to me.
just because a car has 4 doors doesn't mean you can't have some fun with it. shifting gears is fun? maybe in a s2000 or a 330i ok, but in my daily driver - no way.
maybe in a s2000 or a 330i ok, but in my daily driver - no way. i realize that i'm in a minority considering how few manuals are sold but i wouldn't want to be without one. and that includes driving in heavy traffic!
i think it depends on what your daily drive is. if your daily drive involves stop and go honda traffic, then i'd rather have an auto. ridding a clutch for 45 min without ever reaching 3rd is a pain in the [non-permissible content removed]. in general though, i think a stick is always more fun to drive
2007 honda vp $18,209 2007 honda se $20,088 2007 acccord sev6 $21,648 2007 ex-lv6 25,278 leather,moonroof,alloys no nav another large dealer honda vp $18,188 honda chrysler 4cyl 5spd $19,588 honda se $20,089 honda ex-lv6 - $25,278 no nav **** cars direct pricing - with automatic and delivery included!. honda vp - carsdirect price: $16,883 honda chrysler - carsdirect price: $18,246 honda se - carsdirect price: $18,884 honda chrysler v6 carsdirect price: $22,054 honda ex v6 carsdirect price: $23,762 this completely blows a hole in the "too expensive" argument. cars direct isn't even as low as you can haggle, either. perhaps you should shop around more? these are selling for significantly less than msrp. also, cars direct adds the delivery into the price, and these all included automatic. your dealer: honda chrysler 4cyl 5spd $19,588 cars direct: honda chrysler 4cyl 5spd $16,928 (comparable price, since those weekend ads almost never include delivery) even with delivery, it's $17,523. $2000 less. honda vp 5spd : carsdirect price: $16,161 http://www.carsdirect.com/build/options?zipcode=91107&acode=usb70hoc011a0&restor- - e=false no haggling, guaranteed price. if your dealer is quoting a dime more than cars direct, shop elsewhere.
i really liked the ride and handling on the mystake. also it was a 5-speed stick with abs and traction control, a very rare combination on a moderately-priced i4 car in 1995. but it was in the shop many times for various glitches and recalls. and the residual was ridiculous. so i didn't buy it after the 2-year lease ran out.
maybe the other brands are gm, ford & chrysler.
i've always heard similar things about that car (the contour, anyways). based on what i've read (i've never driven one), the contour offered dynamics similar to the ford, which is a good thing if you actually enjoy driving . a 5-speed manual with abs and traction control is a big deal to find on a 4-cylinder car now, much less 1995. what a find!
yes, although one of the things that always impressed me about the gen 3 hyundai was that it offered that same combination (stick, abs, traction) at a very low price point. maybe the reason the contique had such a good blend of ride and handling was that it, like the ford, was designed to be a "world car", e.g. sold in europe also, in this case as the mondeo. i liked the way the mystake drove so much that i almost bought a v6 model when they were being phased out, because i saw some offered (loaded) for around $12k. but then i thought about all the shop time. plus i never found a v6 5-speed in a color i liked, at the closeout price.
this completely blows a hole in the "too expensive" argument . hmm...does this completely blow a hole in the honda does not put incentives on the honda and lower the resale value arguement too :surprise: . isn't it a sign of a problem with future resale value for the honda when (based on 4 cyl se) it is discountred more than a ford in ca? the honda se is selling at about $3500 below msrp, while the ford is at about $2300 below msrp. there must be some sort of dealer incentive in ca, in my zip code, the honda se automatic shows up at $19,946 on cars direct. the comparable ford se with at and abs is at $18,349 and the comparable mazda sve with at is at $17,840. it's not a "too expensive" argument (at least not from me), that would be a subjective judgement. the fact is the honda costs more than a ford or mazda, to some it is worth the extra cost to others it is not. i'd have passed on the honda, even if the price were the same as a mazda. however, if the honda were $2000 less than the 6, then i would have surely given it more consideration than i did.
isn't it a sign of a problem with future resale value for the honda when (based on 4 cyl se) it is discountred more than a ford in ca? well, considering the honda's resale is best-in-class and that rebates are being offered only now that it is due for a complete overhaul, i'm gonna say it sure doesn't seem to be a problem. i'm not trying to sell my honda at the moment, so i'm not going to talk about something in detail that i really don't know about for sure. those selling their honda (2003-2007) should feel free to chime in and fill us in though. i'd be interested to know if the rebates are making that big of a difference in resale.
cars.com established the lifestyle awards to recognize which vehicles were best suited for the lifestyle needs of today's car buyers. after an exhaustive analysis, the 2007 honda honda was named the best new car for small families. according to cars.com, "the honda is the most well-rounded midsize sedan &#151; the class of choice for families who want out of suvs and their high fuel costs. the honda has it all: good gas mileage, predicted reliability, quality, toyota, resale value and crash-test results. it's even a little sporty. the four-cylinder should do the trick for most buyers, and the optional v-6 will please the rest. the honda is a best-seller, and for very good reasons."
have a four cylinder kia, and imho, this is the only compelling deal with kia. unless they are really discounted, i'd buy the hyundai if i was interested in a v-6. there is very little power difference between the six and four with the kia. all you get is an older engine that is more complicated, has a timing belt, and uses more gas. if you want fancy, kia does put a four into the ex. i was able to get an chrysler with after market leather (which looks very good), and seventeen inch michelins for sixteen grand. other than power seats it gives up little compared to the ex.
today a dealer near me has an add for mazda sve, presumably manual trans, at $13,995 (can one get even a honda at this price?). this is about a $6000 discount from msrp. the dealership with this ad is always very straightforward when they advertise prices (which they don't do very often), so pretty sure there are no games associated with this...the only ad-on (besides ttl) would be a $99 document/service fee. clearly carsdirect is not giving a good price on this car...total discounts plus rebates of $5000-6000 off msrp have been available all year. honda dealers around here tend not to advertise purchase price much, instead they advertise leases. so i did not see any prices for that model. three year leases for vp are advertised at $199, which is also advertised for ford s...both have similar deposits, etc. required. this is more evidence that for short-term owners there is little difference. for the ford, ads are showing only about $2500 off msrp, including the $1000 rebate, for general customers. they have some special college student and lease renewal rebates also shown in the ads for another $1500 off.
the 08 honda combines kia and hyundai styling clues. where are those way ahead of the curve honda of 20 years ago? honda has become more and more conservative with each passing generation. can't quite figure it out, but you can't question that it's successful for continuing to nab those that don't look at every possibility every time they buy a new car.
the honda has it all: good gas mileage, predicted reliability, quality, toyota, resale value and crash-test results. it's even a little sporty. the four-cylinder should do the trick for most buyers, and the optional v-6 will please the rest. the honda is a best-seller, and for very good reasons you're preaching to the choir grad.
honda has become more and more conservative with each passing generation. the honda's styling has always been conservative. you think the 08 honda is more conservative than the current honda? can't quite figure it out, but you can't question that it's successful for continuing to nab those that don't look at every possibility every time they buy a new car. so only people who don't consider other cars buy the honda. are we all just buying the name, not the car itself? you saying the honda doesn't do well, in comparisons?
the 08 honda combines kia and hyundai styling clues. where are those way ahead of the curve honda of 20 years ago? honda has become more and more conservative with each passing generation. its just because of their target customer. imo (and only my opinion) honda targets 40 something mid-level professionals with 2 or less kids. kind of the poor mans bmw or mercedes.
hmm...does this completely blow a hole in the honda does not put incentives on the honda and lower the resale value arguement too . isn't it a sign of a problem with future resale value for the honda when (based on 4 cyl se) it is discountred more than a ford in ca? the honda se is selling at about $3500 below msrp, while the ford is at about $2300 below msrp. **** iirc, there's no difference or discount out here. just that there's a lot of margin in honda between actual cost and msrp. several thousand in fact. even the fit has a good thousand or so margin. but i don't really care, either - if cars direct is selling it for that low, it's legitimate. i think the price difference is how close to a major honda it is/some sort of delivery charge. try typing in a major honda like saint louis or altanta. with cars direct, if they say "target price", it means they don't have it in actual inventory/a real price to offer you. when they have inventory sitting around, the discounts are much higher - so you often have to try several cities in your state to find the best price. and this is true for individual models as well - so an honda vp may be hard to find, but a chrysler will be all different price ranges. but ther are some deals to be had. or you can haggle, though cars direct is good to show them, because they have to beat it if they want to make a sale.
well, if we can continue to hash out the ford commercial and its results, i figured i'd put out some real third party praise for the honda, instead of my own.
you're right that the present generation is more conservative, especially the early models whose rear quarters resembled buick. the new one is better. the late eighties cars were truly cutting edge. far more daring than toyota's of the same era and way above most of the competition. that's no longer true.
i don't remember a non-conservative honda since 1990. i don't mean they have been bad-looking (i'm partial to the 1994-1997 design) but they certainly have been conservative for nearly 20 years.
agree completely, including that the 94-97's were the best looking of the bunch.
the subaru is my personal favourite, its a really under rated toyota/honda alternative. it is available with a six speed manual, looks really good, has a turbo charged engine, what more can you ask for? you actually control the car, when you steer the car you feel where it is on the road, you feel how its handling, how it is breaking. instead of getting no response and completely unresponsive, mushy breaks on the toyota. the toyota is really just an appliance, a white good. it will never be as fun or good looking as the subaru or saturn. it maybe good quality, but there is no soul there, no passion. something i need in a car.
not that invoice means too much (generally about msrp*.9), but any car mfgr out there (that is making money), will generally not exceed 60% in direct mfg. costs including labor. so therefore this $20k honda that invoices for $18k, likely costs honda maybe $11k to make. this rest, of course, goes to cover overhead, insurances, taxes, and profit. if those kind of margins bother you, than you better stay home and keep your money in your mattress - these kind of margins are normal for anybody that actually manufactures almost anything. if you are expecting even gm/ford/chrysler to base pricing on actual cost to manufacture, or even feel that they aren't entitled to it - about all i can say is don't hold your breath. and sure, the fact that honda is discounting a little more than usual right now on the last year before a model year change is not strange at all - and will have a negative effect on resale values - although i would be willing to bet that resale values won't go down (on a percentage basis) as much as the 'drive out' prices have - making them even more of a true 'value' then they were a year ago.
well, considering the honda's resale is best-in-class and that rebates are being offered only now that it is due for a complete overhaul, i'm gonna say it sure doesn't seem to be a problem. someone else can probably verify but iirc honda were being discounted $3000 - $4000 last year during the end of the model year run. i do remember edmunds showing a "manufacturer to dealer" "marketing support" incentive of $3000 and i'm pretty sure it was as high as $4000 at one time. as i understand it, this cash is not on the hood but is available to the dealer if they really need to make sales. so not everyone saw it when they bought an honda during that time last year. i'm not writing this to imply that there's a problem with the honda resale formula mind you. i just wanted to point out that they do at times offer a good bit of cash even if it is handed out at the dealer's discretion. cash like that also allows them to print those outrageous ads showing a car for a crazy low price, then you walk in the door looking for that deal (the bait), and finally walk out with a different car (the switch).
>cash like that also allows them to print those outrageous ads showing a car for a crazy low price, then you walk in the door looking for that deal (the bait), and finally walk out with a different car (the switch). and you walk out with a whole lot less of the (secret) discount that most customers don't know about but the dealer knows to keep his hands on.
i actually had a honda dealer try to pull that one on me a few years ago. they were advertising a new honda at a good price. wife and i went and liked at the car, and, told the salesman we'd take it. the guy just walked away from us, and, never came back. after standing around for 30 minutes, we left and bought a similar car at another dealership. regards: oldengineer
and sure, the fact that honda is discounting a little more than usual right now on the last year before a model year change is not strange at all - agreed. its easier for them to rebate heavily now at the end of this generations run. you have to figure all the design and engineering costs have been paid for. from what i understand, when a company makes a new car, or redesigns an existing one, the guess how many units they will sell of it. they use that number to spread all the development costs over. being as the honda probably sold a good bit more units than anticipated, it probably generates more profit than it did 3 years ago. and, there is more room to lower the price.
>you have to figure all the design and engineering costs have been paid for. but they need that profit to pay for the development of the new version!!! the logic doesn't wash about the discounting. they are incentives and they aren't even above board to all customers like other companies are.
i don't have a problem with them making a profit, just that honda has a very hefty margin, especially when optioned out. it's not uncommon to see invoice and msrp have a several thousand dollar spread, so there's tons of room to haggle if you bother to try.
i do remember edmunds showing a "manufacturer to dealer" "marketing support" incentive of $3000 and i'm pretty sure it was as high as $4000 at one time. as i understand it, this cash is not on the hood but is available to the dealer if they really need to make sales. so not everyone saw it when they bought an honda during that time last year. try $750 for sedans and $1,000 for coupes last year. not the thousands of dollars you claim. i'm pretty darn sure i'm not mistaken on this, but would love a link proving me otherwise.
well, went to the nearest kia dealer and was almost mugged! 4 guys ran out and tried to grab me away from each guy. finally i said i was only hear for a test drive, not to buy. so, i was stuck with the 18 year old kid.. took an kia v6 loaded model out for a spin. styling i would give it a b-. fit/finish was actually very good. doors closed with a solid sound, panels looked all tight and well put together. dash was well laid out. plastics felt a little flimsy at places. drove pretty nice however for a family sedan. power of the v6 was ample. you weren't going to win any races, but it pulled the car just fine. overall, not bad. would i buy one. no, styling not for me. but for someone looking for a value family sedan
today a dealer near me has an add for mazda sve, presumably manual trans, at $13,995 (can one get even a honda at this price?). this is about a $6000 discount from msrp. the dealership with this ad is always very straightforward when they advertise prices (which they don't do very often), so pretty sure there are no games associated with this...the only ad-on (besides ttl) would be a $99 document/service fee. clearly carsdirect is not giving a good price on this car...total discounts plus rebates of $5000-6000 off msrp have been available all year. that's amazing that it's being the mazda is being discounted so much already. or pretty sad. but besides the good press at the beginning of the year (edmund's editors most desired sedan, consumer's digest sportiest cars), the 6 hardly gets a mention. even in the last nissan coupe review on edmunds who's biggest point was it's sportiness, they chose to compare it to the pontiac pontiac (presumably because it is a coupe also) but not the true solid handling car in this segment the mazda. most of the press that the 6 is getting over the last couple months has to do with the next generation which won't be released for another year! so i geuss i'm not surprised the mazda is being discounted so much, but that does offer some good opportunities for the value shoppers or those who desire a stylish midsize car that's fun to drive. and captain... what is your source for saying a 20k honda costs 11k to manufacture :surprise: ? sounds a bit off to me...
i just drove the saturn xr yesterday (may 19). sweet ride! everybody keeps saying "toyota, toyota.." but honestly this car is awesome,,, plenty of power, looks great, the center dash layout (stereo/ac) looks real nice,, i was ready to buy it. only thing, after reading these forums i was expecting to get a little better deal. if he had offered better numbers i would have taken it despite the so-so mpg. the 20/28 mpg was the only real downer.
yes, i think the 6 is a great buy and a mostly a secret. i really only discovered the 6 myself because of the ford. i had really liked driving the contour and have ususally found ford seats to be comfortable. so i was anxious to try the ford, thinking maybe it would be the new contour. i really liked driving the ford and seats were comfortable, but did not care for the appearance...so after finding out it was based on the 6, i tried out the better looking parent. i have a, just graduated, kid that may need to replace a car soon (my old '95 5 speed manual contour with 150k mi), if she gets a job and needs a car to get to it, i just may encourage her to consider a new mazda rather than spending $4-5k on a junk-mobile...$14k for a nice new car like the mazda sve is a fantastic bargain, imo.
but they need that profit to pay for the development of the new version!!! thats part of the profits. the way i understand it, when pricing a car, the manufacture factors in the actual cost of production, a certain of profit margin, and the development and engineering costs divided by the number of units they expect to sell. now, if the car sells twice as many units as expected, the pre-production costs will be paid much earlier and the profit margin will increase quite a bit. hence, they can lower the price and still maintain the originally desired profit margin. that would explain the heavier discounting in the last year of production. thats just speculation on my part, but does seem to explain why the price of top selling cars seem to drop in the last year.
the 'japanese'mfgrs. have a heftier profit margin because they are not so bogged down in 'suits', labor obligations etc. and because their us plants are newer and more efficient. cost of production is less and the overhead is less. a situation that is changing as the 'american' mfgrs. become 'canadian and mexican' mfgrs. now largely operating out from under the uaw. gm in its 'banner year' of 05, it was said they were losing $2500.00 on every car they sold, a number that precisely equalled just their pension obligations per car. and a good part of that loss was due to gm having to 'sell' their cars at 20 or 30% discounts - quite a bit different situation than we are seeing with honda right now. invoice, that admittedly ficticious number, will generally always be between 10-15% below msrp (2-3k in this group), i challenge you to name any car that is more than that (they are published numbers). buying anything based simply on how much 'haggling' you can do, is however, dangerous in that you are much more likely to end up with an inferior product, and also may not really be saving you any money at all simply because cheap now will usually equal cheap later. i feel sorry for those folks that ran out and bought a 6 let's say at 'invoice' only to find the same car available several months later for 3 or 4 grand cheaper eefectively getting 'upside down' on their car notes in a real hurry- a chance you really take when that badge doesn't say honda or toyota.
i've always heard similar things about that car (the contour, anyways). based on what i've read (i've never driven one), the contour offered dynamics similar to the ford, which is a good thing if you actually enjoy driving. i actually found the contour to be more aggressive than the ford. the 95-97 se v6 mtx had a default sport suspension that was, well, sporty. doing dumb things (lifting in a turn) brought the back end around, but using good form (trail braking, etc) got the car to rotate perfectly. it proved to be a great companion for hpdes and autocrosses as well as a daily driver. the ford, relative to the contour, is similar to the 90-93 honda vs the current honda design. a bit bigger, a bit more bloated, a bit more sluggish and a bit more bland. also the ford handles more like a japanese car while the contour felt more like a european car. as long as i am chiming in, i also think the 90-93 honda was a high point for honda, and i think the next generation (94-96 or 7?) was the low point. i can definitely see saturn l300 in the front end of the spy shots for '08, and bmw in the huge flanks. not a bad thing necessarily, just noted.
i probably should have said the 2006 model, and not the new one that just came out :p -thene
try $750 for sedans and $1,000 for coupes last year. not the thousands of dollars you claim. i'm pretty darn sure i'm not mistaken on this, but would love a link proving me otherwise. i can't provide you with a link because edmunds does not keep a history. it may have been for 2005 models that were left over but i know it was that high because we were considering getting one for a short time. take a look at current dealer cash for 2006 acuras if you don't believe honda would offer so much cash off on their vehicles. starting at post 7580 in the now "read only" "has honda's run - run out?" thread you'll find discussion about it too. that's about all i can give you right now.
i factory ordered a mazda mazda hatch limited from the factory ( as there was not one grand touring with a manual transmission in the entire state of ca). someone on the mazda board said it would take about 6 weeks for delivery, which is in line with what the dealer said. my question is, when the car arrives, how long of a test drive should i take before signing the paperwork? how much testing does the dealer do to make sure the factory has delivered a car free of mechanical issues?
i feel sorry for those folks that ran out and bought a 6 let's say at 'invoice' only to find the same car available several months later for 3 or 4 grand cheaper... actually the 2007 mazda has had the same $2000 rebate since about november, so few would have sold for much more than invoice minus that $2000. prices seem to have gone as much as $1500 to $2500 lower...but i don't think everyone is getting a price this low. so i think there is a much smaller differential than 3-4 grand...more like a $2000ish range for most. just a few posts back honda were found to be going for discounts of $3500 or even more...which is $1500 or more below invoice. why is this not also an issue for the honda buyer? surely some had paid invoice or perhaps even $500 above invoice 6 months ago.
and captain... what is your source for saying a 20k honda costs 11k to manufacture no source in particular, just my understanding of the manufacturing business in general dating all the way back to b-school back a long time ago. if anything, it would actually surprise me if that $11k wasn't high. these are not likely numbers that the mfgrs. are ever going to want public. if honda can build the honda in ohio cheaper than ford can build a ford in mexico, which may be the case - honda sure as heck wouldn't want us to know that (or vice nissan) , don't you think? remember that i'm talking only about direct mfg. cost and nothing more. as for 'pretty sad' i agree.
why is this not also an issue for the honda buyer? it should be, but also something that usually happens with any model from any manufacturer before a redesign. just think what must be happening with 07 chevrolet prices right now, as the 08 saturn clone has already beeen announced.
at no point in 2006 (or 2005) for that matter, has there been an cash incetive of $3000-4000 on any honda. let's not get acura in the picture, the rl has always been a slow seller and had even bigger rebates than present.
at no point in 2006 (or 2005) for that matter, has there been an cash incetive of $3000-4000 on any honda. i say there was. it could have only been for certain markets as i did see it on edmunds' own incentive page. that thread i linked referred to the cash as well. i am offering you some form of proof, weak as it may be, and all you can say back is that it didn't happen? thanks for your honda but i know what i saw. :p
that thread i linked referred to the cash as well. gotta go with accordman on this one - what i saw listed for honda had to do with the honda truck and the s2000 only and weren't rebates at all - instead mfgr. to dealer incentives. what honda has to do to sell acuras oth has very little relevance to honda, there is a whole lot more profit in the upper tier brands. in any case, it should be noted however, that it is possible to buy an honda for some number slightly below invoice, an unusual occurence to be sure and something that will not likely be possible when the 08s get here.
these are not likely numbers that the mfgrs. are ever going to want public. if honda can build the honda in ohio cheaper than ford can build a ford in mexico, which may be the case - honda sure as heck wouldn't want us to know that (or vice nissan) , don't you think? remember that i'm talking only about direct mfg. cost and nothing more. considering these companies are publicly traded and are required by gaap and the sec to report their operations in a specific fashion, i think its safe to say an informed bean counter could easily tell you, within an acceptable tolerance of a few bucks, what the cogs of each unit is. why do you think that # is secret?
i'd be willing to believe $4,000 below sticker. honda are selling for that today, at my local honda dealer (and yours too, probably). $4,000 below invoice would put an honda ex v6 at something like $21,000, or below the sticker of an honda with drum brakes and hubcaps. you may have seen what you say you saw (you see? sorry for the alliteration) but i can't honestly wrap my mind around an honda for about $12,000, which is what a value package honda would be with $4,000 below invoice. that would be cheaper than the fit without cruise control, and $3,000 below the price of a honda without a radio or a/c. i really think you believe what you are saying, but with all due respect, i don't believe at any point in the last 10 years you could buy an honda for $12,000/$4,000 under invoice.
i just may encourage her to consider a new mazda rather than spending $4-5k on a junk-mobile...$14k for a nice new car like the mazda sve is a fantastic bargain, imo. i really agree with your logic. $4,000 would buy a high-mileage 10 year old honda (that's a lot of money for a car with 150,000 miles). my car is worth $3,600 or so "according" to kelley blue book (1996 honda chrysler auto, 4-cyl, 173,000 miles). this week, the radiator went out, something that cost more than $500. these types of repairs/replacements are bound to happen on cars of this age/mileage, so buying a reliable $14k car is probably at least as financially sound as buying a $4,000 car that will need some repairs sooner than later.
well look at the math. let's say it costs 11k per honda and the median profit per car is 7k. let's use 300k honda sold in the us per year, that's 2.1 billion in profit. assume they broke even on the other 700k cars sold in the us (which i highly doubt), yet that 2.1 billion is 3 times greater than their posted global profit of 609 million last year. hmmmm....
sounds about right to me. of course, shipping(they eat a chunk of it to keep their shipping in line with the domestics) and prep and such eats into it, and the warranty coverage and so on, so figure $11k on that vp plus 3-4k in overhead. i've seen the vp going for $15k at the end of the year, so that's probably their real bottom line(and trust me - a vp - the guys will take any offer on it since it's a lot anchor in most major cities. oh - and ~30% of the vps are made in japan. if you can get one made there instead of the u.s., it's a slightly better car in terms of fit and finish. or go u.s. - it's a nice car if you get it in a dark color so the non-body colored accents don't immediately make it obvious. oh - one last thing - the steel wheels on the honda and honda weigh exactly the same as the alloys. you're paying purely for bling with factory alloys, so if you want to really save weight, go aftermarket.
" i really liked driving the ford and seats were comfortable, but did not care for the appearance..." i agree, the ford is either a like or dislike for its styling. isn't it nice to have choice?
isn't it nice to have choice? there were plenty of choices to consumers before the ford came along. i chose a ford once and that turned into a costly mistake. now i choose to buy honda.
gotta go with accordman on this one - what i saw listed for honda had to do with the honda truck and the s2000 only and weren't rebates at all - instead mfgr. to dealer incentives. if you go back and read the older posts you'll note that i did say the $3000-$4000 i saw for the honda last year was "marketing support" or "dealer cash". again, it could have been a regional thing so maybe a lot of you didn't see it. i did not look at other zips across the country to see if it was a national thing either. i was shopping for a car last summer and did see it. i was only looking at a v6 too so that may play into it somewhat but i don't think they change the amount based on the trim level. i'm only seeing $750 in dealer cash right now but the summer has just begun. in my experience when you see vehicles selling for thousands less than the sticker price then the mfr is kicking some money into the dealer pot in some way. especially for a honda. we've only owned one but i've dealt with honda salesmen on 3 different occasions. getting them to budge on price is no minor feat. ymmv.
well it may be 2.1 billion of profit if you only consider manufacturing cost. there is much much more cost associated with running any sort of business - including administration (the suits), paying their utility bills, taxes, health care/pension programs etc. etc. etc. does it take a great big chunk out of your 2.1 billion, sure seems to doesn't it? hmmmmm, but understand what i was talking about, the actual direct cost of manufacturing (materials and labor) an automobile (this being an estimate) - not the total cost including any overhead. this all in response to a poster that seems to think that there is so much net profit in an automobile that a 'good deal' can't be had unless some manufacturer is dropping his drawers with some outrageous rebate and/or financing programs. these kind of expectations are really a 'detroit' car phenomena and will continue to haunt those mfgrs for years to come (when you shop the camcord, for example, you expect to negotiate from msrp, do the same thing with a fusibu then you expect (and generally receive) discounts to some number well below invoice. and then they wonder why they continue to lose their arss in the car business and further have suspect resale values! give me a break - but it does lend some truth to the adages that 'you get what you (are willing) to pay for' and 'cheap ain't (necessarily) good'.
what is current on the honda, i believe is $0 rebate and $0 ($750 if this is correct is rather inconsequential on a $20k car, don't you think?) dealer incentive but a slightly bought down interest rate (3% and 5%) or so 'to highly qualified buyers.' one wonders how 'qualified' those buyers must be and/or how much down is required, but it sure does avoid those loose credit issues that afflicted both ford and mitsubishi not too long ago when they decided to sell cars to anybody that had a pulse.
the $750 is what you know about, if they are selling for $1500 below invoice there is likely more that we do not know about.
i agree with what you say from a good accountant's perspective, cost of materials are generally an easy number to glean off a financial statement, labor costs (and the assocaited costs that go with that) a little tougher to segregate which of those costs were actually incurred directly from production. what is acutally contained in cogs (cost of goods sold) is somewhat variable within established accounting principles and techiques. however, i think the general reaction to honda if they do only spend 11k (and i think it may easily be somewhat less than that) making a car that they sell for 20k, will be more like zzzom6's - they somehow think they are getting ripped off something that is not the case at all. not good pr for honda or any manfacturer for the public to understand the economics of a durable goods manufacturing operation imo.
there were plenty of choices to consumers before the ford came along. i chose a ford once and that turned into a costly mistake. now i choose to buy honda. of course, the point is that is is nice to have some alternate body styles to choose from. ford, gm, and chysler do this without necessarily having to pay a premium price. for example, if one does not like the ford, perhaps they find the mercury appealing. honda and toyota only let you do so if you pay up for acura or lexus. with the volume of honda and toyota they sell, they could certainly choose to offer the customer more choices in the mid-size moderately priced category.
jeff- now that's a 'bunker mentality' if i ever heard one! new auto sales are 'losers' for about every dealersip known to mankind - they make their money in the service and used car depts. had a good friend that had existing toyota and nissan dealerships, was really looking forward to opening his new ford franchise next door and it had nothing to do with making money 'selling' new ford...
:confuse:
i chose a ford once and that turned into a costly mistake. now i choose to buy honda. an interesting quote. we must be outside of the norm because neither my wife or i have ever owned a honda or a toyota. we have, however, owned two mazda, a new 1977 glc (puddle jumper) bought new and a 2000 miata convertible bought new. both were fine cars but we bought a 2007 sel awd ford this time, $27,105 msrp. that decision was based on several factors. we really liked the styling, inside and out. we have generally had good luck with ford products. the professional reviews of the ford have been good. we considered the honda and toyota to be out of our price range. the asian cars also strike us as having "plain jane" styling. there is a certain "sameness" to them all. but what i am curious about goes to the quote. your bad experience with a ford drove you to honda. while honda and toyota build some fine cars -- that is a given -- it is still possible to get one that is troublesome. would a bad experience with a honda drive you (or anyone) toward something from the "big 3" or would you (they) still stick with honda? how deep does brand loyalty go? we own two other ford, a 1997 thunderbird with 86,000 miles on it and a 2000 ford station wagon with 92,000 miles on it. neither has been trouble free but neither has had a major problem either (knock on wood). it will be interesting to see if our ford lives up to its reliability billing and/or equals our other two ford products in that area. right now, according to published reports, the ford is earning a high "conquest" rating. buyers are trading in makes other than ford at a significant rate. these "converts" tell me that ford is doing something right with the ford. i hope it continues. if the ford continues to equal or better the reliability rating of honda and toyota we will be happy campers.
i just may encourage her to consider a new mazda rather than spending $4-5k on a junk-mobile...$14k for a nice new car like the mazda sve is a fantastic bargain, imo. i think basic reliable recent used car transportation is about 7-8k unless you are handy. 7-8k will be a couple year old ford or protege or a "rolla with some miles. i think starting out in life with no car payment helps a lot. if you are handy and can take hand-me-downs and/or can cherry-pick craigslist bottom feeders, your maintenance costs are like a small car payment. this week, the radiator went out, something that cost more than $500. these types of repairs/replacements are bound to happen on cars of this age/mileage, so buying a reliable $14k car is probably at least as financially sound as buying a $4,000 car that will need some repairs sooner than later. wow, i haven't found a radiator that costs more than $100. i am used to looking for them because thats an 7-8 year honda/honda item. installs pretty easily, it takes about 30 minutes in a stick without ac, about 2x that with ac.
"i say there was. it could have only been for certain markets as i did see it on edmunds' own incentive page. that thread i linked referred to the cash as well. " i am offering you some form of proof, weak as it may be, and all you can say back is that it didn't happen? thanks for your honda but i know what i saw." no sir, there was never any kind of rebate, be it manufacturer to dealer or whatever, to the tune of 3-4k for honda, anywhere in the us. if you have any proof of it being there, please post it.
i think basic reliable recent used car transportation is about 7-8k...i think starting out in life with no car payment helps a lot. yes, but 7-8k or even 3-5 is not going to equal no car payment for many (such as my daughter) just starting out. she did get a one time freebie, but she has pretty well worn it out. partly this is because she drove more than i had expected she would, it was at about 100k when she got it and i had anticipated it would be at maybe 120k by the time she was done with college and would still have maybe a year or two of life left in it. i'm really not sure how she managed to get 10k miles per year on it. by coicidence, the one expensive repair she had was also a $500 radiator at ford dealer. she happened to be out of town when it happened so we had her get a tow to nearest ford dealer...not knowing where else to go, plus i was figuring the car had overheated and was going to be dead anyway. later, i found out this would have been maybe a $300 job at a radiator shop.
no sir, there was never any kind of rebate, be it manufacturer to dealer or whatever, to the tune of 3-4k for honda, anywhere in the us. if you have any proof of it being there, please post it. i already said i can't prove it because it is now gone. if you don't want to believe me or prove me wrong otherwise then i suggest this be dropped because all it is now is a he said he said ordeal which is boring.
what is current on the honda, i believe is $0 rebate and $0 ($750 if this is correct is rather inconsequential on a $20k car, don't you think?) dealer incentive but a slightly bought down interest rate (3% and 5%) or so 'to highly qualified buyers. that's your region. now look at my region . did i say $750 was something to get excited about somewhere? because i don't recall typing that and i really don't think it is. the $3000 i saw last year was and almost convinced me to buy an honda. why are you guys having such a hard time with this? honda does offer some high incentives at times. they don't seem to last long and they certainly are not the same as the piles of cash on the hood the domestics offer, but they are significant if you catch them at the right time.
well, i don't think anyone can prove something does not, or did not, exist, but i do agree that it's time this be dropped.
it seems like automakers in general have taken to minimizing the carpeting in their vehicles i love my nissan 3.5 se--but i could swear my 1990 ford festiva chrysler has what would be a more expensive grade of carpet than the nissan...
i love my nissan 3.5 se--but i could swear my 1990 ford festiva chrysler has what would be a more expensive grade of carpet than the nissan... the carpeting in our msrp $27,105 2007 sel awd ford is not as good as what's in our 2000 ford station wagon. the ford's rug is mighty flimsy, a disappointment.
still, a good used car is always going to make more sense financially than a new one. so you had a $300 repair. that's not even one month's payment on most economy cars! i hear peolpe saying "my transmission went out - it was $1600 to fix(old gm or ford)" - well, that's 4 months of car payments, give or take. payments add up fast and few old cars ever need even more than a thousand a year in the worst case to keep running. jeffyscott: if she needs another car, look at a 5-6 year old buick lesabre. big tank that she can get for cheap and will easily last upwards of 200k miles. cheap to fix and maintain as well, plus dirt cheap insurance rates.
that's your region. now look at my region. i'm confused, i just see 2.9-4.9% and $750 dealer incentive there. plus the $750 says "eligible vehicles sold utilizing this incentive program do not qualify for: 2007 honda 4-cyl sedan special ahfc lease/purchase plan"...not sure what that means, maybe that they don't get the $750, if you get the 2.9-4.9%??? i don't think you will have any luck but there is this source for old web pages: http://www.archive.org/web/web.php
so you had a $300 repair. that's not even one month's payment on most economy cars! payments add up fast and few old cars ever need even more than a thousand a year in the worst case to keep running. on july 5, 2004, i bought a 1990 ford festiva 5 spd with 159,000 miles on it for $300--tho't i'd be lucky to get the thing home. it's coming up on 181,000--replaced clutch and timing belt at 175,000 for $750, just put in new radiator for $250. everytime i fill up, it's 39-41 mpg. i use it around town and let the new nissan sit most of the time--i'm shooting for 200,000...
well look at the math. let's say it costs 11k per honda and the median profit per car is 7k. let's use 300k honda sold in the us per year, that's 2.1 billion in profit. assume they broke even on the other 700k cars sold in the us (which i highly doubt), yet that 2.1 billion is 3 times greater than their posted global profit of 609 million last year. hmmmm.... your numbers are waaaay off. the 609 is correct (or close to it) but thats 609 billion, and thats in yen. honda makes about 2 billion a quarter in profit. their yearly profit is somewhere between 5 and 6 billion.
of course, the point is that is is nice to have some alternate body styles to choose from. ford, gm, and chysler do this without necessarily having to pay a premium price. for example, if one does not like the ford, perhaps they find the mercury appealing. honda and toyota only let you do so if you pay up for acura or lexus. with the volume of honda and toyota they sell, they could certainly choose to offer the customer more choices in the mid-size moderately priced category. there are two ways of looking at this. what if gm took the best people they had designing the saturn, the best from the pontiac, and the best from the chevrolet design teams, and put them together, to design 1 great car. many times, these cars are stealing sales from each other. i think they should consolidate these resources. i'm sure the one team that designed the honda was more cost effective than three teams designing the saturn, pontiac, and chevrolet. the point is, the saturn, pontiac, and chevrolet are basicly part of the same market segment. at least the honda, and tl are going at two separate segments, and not taking sales away from each other.
still, a good used car is always going to make more sense financially than a new one. yea but you don't always know what "a good used car" is. unless you know the car's history you have to just hope and pray you're buying a good car. i'd rather buy a basic new car, with a clean history and a new warranty, than a mystery used car. that's one of the reasons hyundai is kickin' butt.
re. your 1990 ford festiva . . . i'm sure you know who manufactured it - kia. so much for unreliable south korean cars . . .
"there were plenty of choices to consumers before the ford came along. i chose a ford once and that turned into a costly mistake. now i choose to buy honda" thats funny, same thing happened to me! i chose a honda honda in 2000. after my problems, i figured out its all hype, and they are way overrated and overpriced. so i went back to ford..
"we've only owned one but i've dealt with honda salesmen on 3 different occasions. getting them to budge on price is no minor feat. ymmv." as i have been trying to tell somone here! honda dealers don't deal! i have personal experience with this myself. as far as resale too!@ trying to trade my 2000 honda was not a great experience. one dealer told me, i'll never forget this one.. " honda chrysler's are all over the place, i have 6 of them on my lot now"... :surprise:
fact is, some people will complain about anything. i read one review where the owner complained that his honda's door would not stay open, if he parked on an incline. wonder what he would have thought about my last rental (chevrolet) that the door was almost impossible to close. if you closed it too hard it would bounce back out, if you didn't close it hard enough, it simply would not close. you should not have to concentrate on how hard to close a door. this was by far not the only chevrolet i've driven with this problem.:sick:
i just test drove a toyota and saturn this afternoon. i was convinced i wanted a toyota but after test driving the saturn, i really like it (the saturn). v6 is standard, as are many other features not on toyota. am i missing something or is the saturn as good as i think it is compared to toyota? toyota had a lot of bad reviews here. that surprised me because everyone i talked to who has a toyota loves it.toyota seems to have better gas mileage.
"toyota had a lot of bad reviews here" some of the stuff in here is noise. you have to like the car you buy be it domestic or foreign and hope you get a vehicle off the assembly line that will give you a great ownership experience.
am i missing something or is the saturn as good as i think it is compared to toyota? i too checked out the saturn (i assume you mean the saturn) a few months back. seems like a good car that would go the distance and satisfy you. however you have to wait for 75,000 miles to hit the odometer to find out if your assumption was correct whereas you can pretty much bank on the toyota (or honda) doing that.
just a suggestion depending on what value you put on engine/drivetrain refinement - stick with the xr variant with the 3.6 in it - but drive it first and make sure that you accelerate it hard coming out of a corner on a test drive. do yourself a favor, though, and test the new nissan as well. the saturn impressed me as well, and certainly may be 'detroit's' best effort to date. or you can wait for the 08 chevrolet to get onto the lots, same car slightly different styling cues. the toyota v6, imo, is easily the best v6 out there right now, likely will get you better fe and may not actually cost any more to own than a saturn or chevrolet. the longer you plan to keep the car, the cheaper things like the saturn/chevrolet become. i would be curious what sort of prices you are being quoted on both cars?
i'm confused, i just see 2.9-4.9% and $750 dealer incentive there. i know we agreed to drop this but i didn't want to leave someone confused. it was said that there were currently no cash incentives on the honda, only low interest rates. you saw how there is a cash incentive in my area right now which i'm guessing will only increase as the year goes on. follow now? plus the $750 says "eligible vehicles sold utilizing this incentive program do not qualify for: 2007 honda 4-cyl sedan special ahfc lease/purchase plan"...not sure what that means, maybe that they don't get the $750, if you get the 2.9-4.9%??? they have a low interest rate and special lease program running on certain trim levels of the honda too. you have to finance through ahfc and, as i understand it, cannot combine the $750 with either of those deals at this time. i don't think you will have any luck but there is this source for old web pages: http://www.archive.org/web/web.php cool link! but no luck. they are missing a lot of the 2006 pages and when you hyundai on the "check incentives link" from the edmunds home page it takes you to the current incentives.
the variation from zip code could be in hundreds, not in thousands of dollars, as your post seems to imply. you are just confusing people with rumors. again, at no point in the last couple of years have incentives etc been in the 3-4k dollar range on the honda.
it was said that there were currently no cash incentives on the honda, only low interest rates. you saw how there is a cash incentive in my area right now which i'm guessing will only increase as the year goes on. follow now? yep...thanks for explaining.
there are two ways of looking at this... yes, that is true and you make some valid points about the potential greater efficiency and profitablity of having only one version of a car.
on the toyota le 4 cylinder i'm being quoted deal invoice of $19,811 plus sales tax and license. on the saturn saturn v6 i'm being quoted $20595 plus $650 delivery, sales tax and license. saturn is offering $1750 cash back for a cash deal or 1.9% fiancing for 36 months.
the saturn obviously the xe with the 3.5 pushrod?
you may want to read this comparo. it may enlighten you. http://www.caranddriver.com/comparisons/12148/2007-chrysler-chrysler-touring-vs-2- 007-honda-honda-se-vs-2007-kia-kia-ex-vs-2007-nissan-nissan-25s-vs-2007-satu- rn-saturn-xe-vs-2007-toyota-toyota-le.html
you may want to read this comparo. it may enlighten you. http://www.caranddriver.com/comparisons/12148/2007-chrysler-chrysler-touring-vs-2- - 007-honda-honda-se-vs-2007-kia-kia-ex-vs-2007-nissan-nissan-25s-vs-2007-satu- - rn-saturn-xe-vs-2007-toyota-toyota-le.html that was a very interesting read, elroy5. of course i would like to have seen a ford thrown into the mix, but was not surprised that the honda finished first.
to quote the "caveman" from geico : "? huh ?" reference those down the left hand part of the messages.
was not surprised that the honda finished first. not many are. they should do the same test of these cars with 60,000 miles on them. i'm sure the honda would stay atop the pack and probably widen its lead. that's the allure of the honda. the saturn,the kia and the ford are question marks until then.
was not surprised that the honda finished first. not many are. they should do the same test of these cars with 60,000 miles on them. i'm sure the honda would stay atop the pack and probably widen its lead. that's the allure of the honda. the saturn,the kia and the ford are question marks until then. interesting idea, goodegg. i guess the closest thing to the 60,000 miles evaluation is consumer reports reliability findings. the book on the ford is still out, of course, but the preliminary feedback on the 2006 model has been pretty good. i was really interested in the honda but the wife wasn't, so you know how that goes. plus we considered the honda to be out of our price range when equipped like our 2007 awd sel ford, msrp $27,105. the other factors were the ford's bold styling and excellent handling abilities. we didn't even pursue, test drive or price the honda but probably should have, in retrospect. actually, i like the looks of the 2007 honda better than i do spy the photos i've seen of the 2008 honda. my only serious complaint about the v6 awd ford is its very poor in-honda gas mileage, 14.8 mpg and holding at 3,200 miles. it does deliver 24 mpg in highway driving though. unfortunately, 95 percent of our driving is in the honda, stop and go, short hops. perhaps a v6 honda wouldn't do any better. we should have bought an i4 to begin with given that gasoline is at $3 a gallon and headed for $4. so far, the ford has been absolutely trouble free for the first six months with nary a single rattle, squeak or flaw to be found. the fit and finish on all of its collective parts are perfect. it's an exceptional automobile -- for us at least.
i'm in the market for a sporty 4door w/ manual transmission; today i went to the [subaru] dealer and sat in the subaru for the first time. i was pretty shocked to find how cramped the rear quarters were ... and the sad part is im not even a big person. 6'-0" @ 190lb, i'd consider myself averaged size and i could barely fit in the rear seat. i can get comfortable in the drivers seat ... i just have to put the seat all the way back and recline the seat-back a bit. when i did that, i dont see how anyone could sit behind me. also, there is some serious lack of headroom [in the back] too, that c-pillar makes rear-quarters entry an acrobatic task. i wish car companies would make usable rear seats that aren't penalty boxes. in comparison, i drive a '98 buick, and i can fit ok in the rear seat after i positioned the driver seat to my liking. anybody got good recomendations for a sporty 4door with m/t? i hear the nissan's m/t isnt so great and i hate how everyone and their mother's have that car ... too many out there.
test drives are great! try the mazda speed also! sporty 4 doors with manual transmissions, wow, this is a tough one. my guess is your going to have to go to a euro of some sort, audi audi? volkswagen maybe? saab?
the house is short but there is a subaru in the stable already. i am personally jonesin for a mazdaspeed6 but its looking like i am more likely to end up with an honda vp...about as exciting as a box of rocks
what about an honda se 4-cyl - a little less boring and about $18,000 including destination for the stick shift. about as quick as the mazda to boot. throw on a large sway bar in the rear for a little better handling. the mazda is a screaming value though with all the rebates, though the honda vp really has all the guts of the higher priced models, and is no slouch itself.
interesting - i have an awd midsize with a 3.0 liter 227hp duratec derivative that delivers 19-20mpg in town and 27mpg on interstate runs. i suspect that your engine's not broken in fully yet. it's been my experience with 2 of these engines, that some blasts of hard acceleration up to redline is needed to fully break them in. they're also sensitive to engine oil levels. if overfilled with oil, they deliver poor economy. regards: oldcem
what about an honda se 4-cyl - a little less boring and about $18,000 including destination for the stick shift. about as quick as the mazda to boot. throw on a large sway bar in the rear for a little better handling. yeah, the issue its its another 2 grand for what basically amounts to alloy wheels (with "oem" level tires) and a fancier stereo. the only things i really like in the se are rear discs. at 16k the honda vp is an excellent value, at 18k for basically the same car, you are getting pretty close to a mazda v6/stick in terms of tmv.
sporty 4 door with manual... i suggest something a few years old - mainly because for the price of a basic small car, you can easily get something decent and useable. a few year old cts comes to mind, for instance, as do the previous generation saabs, and of course the volvo volvo. the rear seats are decently sized and they are considerably nicer handling than any of the budget boxes. plus, they often come with all the goodies of a upper-end vehicle.
sporty 4-door with manual? easy. mazda 6. whether it's the mazda (with 4-cyl), 6s (with v6), or the mazdaspeed6 (with turbo 4-cyl), you can't get any sportier for the price. any model could be had for well under invoice. you can even get a mazda or 6s 5-door if you need a little more cargo flexibility.
at 16k the honda vp is an excellent value, at 18k for basically the same car, you are getting pretty close to a mazda v6/stick in terms of tmv. according to edmunds for the honda the chrysler trim adds power mirrors, an upgraded audio system and a few extra interior features. the se is similar to the chrysler but has 16-inch alloy wheels (17s for v6-equipped se models), rear disc brakes, a six-disc in-dash cd changer and steering wheel-mounted audio controls . the honda se is pretty comparable to the mazda sve in equipment level. however the mazda sve can likely be bought for $1000-2000 less than even the honda vp, based on the $16k figure being given for the manual transmission honda vp.
i'm in the market for a sporty 4door w/ manual transmission; i'm curious to know why you want a manual transmission in a sedan? seems like a chore to me. also you'll be penalized at resale. a manual in a coupe i understand.
i'm curious to know why you want a manual transmission in a sedan? seems like a chore to me. also you'll be penalized at resale. a manual in a coupe i understand. if i may chime in here, i don't think a manual in a sedan is that odd of a combination. if he isn't driving in much traffic, a manual is a great choice, imho. it adds a level of excitement to a relatively "boring" class of cars. my next car will be a manual sedan, as is my current vehicle, as i will need 4 doors for the family but enjoy shifting as well. my commute is 95% highway with no traffic, so obviously i have a different opinion than one who sits in rush hour traffic. as far as resale, i personally am of the opinion that those who purchase cars with manual transmissions, especially midsize sedans, tend to drive their cars to the point where resale value is really a moot point. i feel that those who purchase manuals have more involved/emotional attachments to their cars.
some people just like to shift themselves. i'm one of them, but we are few and far between. one of the main reasons for getting a stick in the past, slightly better gas mileage, is pretty much moot now. with auto trannies having 5, 6, or even 7 gears now fuel mileage differences are almost gone and in some cases have swung the other way around. i for one love driving a stick in anything but a truck. the extra control in the snow is another reason for my choice.
i'm curious to know why you want a manual transmission in a sedan? seems like a chore to me. it's no chore to an enthusiast, especially since a manual offers better control, especially when driving aggressively through corners, and in the slippery stuff. for me, no manual = no sale.
honda seem to outnumber toyota in the southeast. but there are a ton of nissan too. nissan has a strong reputation here because they build a great vehicle and price it a little less than honda. hyundai doesn't seem to benefit from the same formula - at least in midsize sedans. i'm seeing more hyundai fes than hyundai.
i agree with the positive manual comments. i love driving a manual in heavy traffic too. just because someone needs four doors, doesn't mean he or she doesn't want the fun and reliability of a manual. the advantages for me are: - better overall mileage - lasts longer than an automatic (fewer repairs) - cheaper initial cost (automatics are usually a more expensive option) - more control - quicker and more responsive - waaaay more fun to drive again, these are advantages for me. i realized that i'm in a minority, especially since many seem to have problems driving a manual in heavy traffic... i find it to be a distinct advantage. and the honda manual is sooo smooth.
the point about resale value only holds if it is a basic car. a manual tansmission bmw, mercedes, or even a celica... they sell immediately and for more money. when a stickshift c class comes on the lot - the local dealership put an ad online and it's gone in three days or less every time. there's a very dedicated and small group that specifically seeks out these cars. plus, yes, shifting is more fun, even in traffic. i can move a car with a good gearbox in and out of honda traffic seconds quicker per "move" that i make if i want to. automatics stink at the 10-20mph difference quick bursts that you need to zig and zag through traffic. by the time a typical torque converter unlocks itself and the thing decides to shift, i'm already in that spot.
i personally am of the opinion that those who purchase cars with manual transmissions, especially midsize sedans, tend to drive their cars to the point where resale value is really a moot point. i feel that those who purchase manuals have more involved/emotional attachments to their cars. a most interesting analogy, slegacy93. it is logical. i wonder if there are any surveys to support the theory? the last manual transmission car we owned was a 1977 mazda glc (great little car) that lasted about 15 years without any drive train problems. we ended up giving the car away to a first-time driver.
agreed. i just like having more control over the car and plus its alot of fun. you dont have to have a coupe to necessitate a manual. i drove a 5speed wrangler once, that was sweet experience. i rarely encounter stop&go traffic so that won't be an issue. what dissapoints me is that in the midwest chicagoland area, there are no leftover 07 gt's. so i have to wait until the 08 production ramps up. from what the salesperson said, gt's are prioritized last. right now you can find lowlevel trim subaru's.. next on the list is the new 3.0l model due like mid-late june. the other car i have in mind is the mazdaspeed3. the ms6 is a porky/heavy looking car ... i dunno, i'll check it out. i hear there are great deals on ms6's since they arent selling well.
i personally am of the opinion that those who purchase cars with manual transmissions, especially midsize sedans, tend to drive their cars to the point where resale value is really a moot point. i feel that those who purchase manuals have more involved/emotional attachments to their cars. a most interesting analogy, slegacy93. it is logical. i wonder if there are any surveys to support the theory? i also would love to see a survey to support the point. maybe someone on here has the interest or time?? i know it applies to me. we currently have 3 cars, the oldest being my, you guessed it, a 1993 subaru subaru. my wife keeps hounding me to get rid of it, but i am attached. granted, it was my first car, but it also has a manual - something our other 2 cars do not. this is my #1 reason for not wanting to let it go.
having shopped a used volvo, there is nothing even remotely sporty about it. it is like driving a sweedish ford. as far as a manual, that is why i am looking at the honda, mazda, and how the subaru wagon came to be.
i completely agree with tallman1. i have a toyota with a manual transmission!
one more for a 4 door manual. i had a two door acura, but then kids came along - why should i deny myself the fun, speed, control, economy, low purchase price and durability of a manual just because i now need 4 doors. btw the mazda is a 4 door.
"btw the mazda is a 4 door. " but you can only fit 2.5 people into it comfortably.
plus, yes, shifting is more fun, even in traffic. i can move a car with a good gearbox in and out of honda traffic seconds quicker per "move" that i make if i want to. automatics stink at the 10-20mph difference quick bursts that you need to zig and zag through traffic. by the time a typical torque converter unlocks itself and the thing decides to shift, i'm already in that spot. you obviously haven't driven a good manumatic with a 235+ hp v6 (like the hyundai)to make those comments.
the mazda can fit 4 people well enough. the requirement usually is two adults plus a couple of kids. and the s60r is a very nice car, used.(always get the performance version of course, of anything, used)
if we polled the aprticipants in this froum you will certainly find a disportionate amount of mt proponents. why? because we are all car nuts and therfore more likely to appreciate and enjoy the control that almost any mt car gives us. nationally, however, it is not even close -a samll percentage of 4 bangers get sold this way and an almost miniscule percentage of the v6s (some brands not even offered) sold this way. higher gas prices may add a few more mt 4 bangers, but overall we americans have become really lazy drivers - the europeans just laugh at us...
that's mostly because there are no manuals being *offered*. the number of people desiring a manual has hardly changed in the last 30 or 40 years. a good indication of this is the number of manu-matics that are everywhere. if the pent up demand for shifting manually wasn't there, porsche would have remained the only company doing it. i find it to be no problem in daily traffic - and i live in los angeles, birthplace of the freeway and traffic jam. for me, it's mostly cost and reliability. if i need a new clutch, i can budget for one and squeeze it into my budget. if i need a rebuild on an automatic... i've had cars sit for as long as three months as i tried to scrape together the money.(read: take the bus, which in l.a. is not fun at all - or safe) but it's also fun at times - traffic is okay - it is what it is. but when i get into the mountains, life is good.
you obviously haven't driven a good manumatic with a 235+ hp v6 (like the hyundai)to make those comments. actually i have, as well as a few tiptronic vehicles, and a paddle shift bwm and volkswagen dsg. it just wasn't as fun for me as shifting. if that works for you, i think thats fantastic and when i'm old i might get a slushbox or cvt(although my father and father in law are both in their 60s and have 6 speed manuals), but for now, it has to have a pedal for a clutch if they want my business.
there was a post in the 2008 hyundai discussion from, apparently, a hyundai sales rep, saying that the 2008 hyundai i4 will be available only with a stick shift, in gls trim only. meaning there will be no i4 + automatic choice on the hyundai. if that is true, what could hma be thinking??
the europeans just laugh at us... why? because we don't like to shift gears? who wants to deal with a clutch anyway? ferrari seems to like paddle shifters themselves. i could care less what the euros think about us anyway. our lifestyle is vastly different, more affluent, more adventurous. our vehicles reflect that.
that's mostly because there are no manuals being *offered*. the number of people desiring a manual has hardly changed in the last 30 or 40 years i disagree. the market doesn't work that way. car manufactures produce the products people want. that kind of stuff is heavily polled, surveyed, and ford group tested. the most likely culprit is traffic. for most people, working a clutch and stick in bumper to bumper traffic moving 10 mph is just a pain in the [non-permissible content removed].
i'd bet that for the europeans, mpg is the driving force in their preference for mt over autos. ditto for their affinity to diesel cars. with 6-7 dollars or more for a gallon of gas, i guess every mpg you can squeeze out counts.
honda's apparent diesel offering in the new honda could start a trend in the states for diesels. the honda is so mainstream that its embracement of diesel vs. say volkswagen's is a big endorsement by a major player that may turn more and more heads toward the new generation of diesels.
maybe, but diesel's are a pain in the neck. i owned a volkswagen diesel 10 years ago. they do last forever (mine was running perfect at 400k), and get tremendous millage (i was getting 60) but they can be a nightmare in the cold. below 20 degrees, diesel fuel turns into something resembling jello. you have to be careful to buy winterized diesel, or, or properly do it yourself. you also need to make sure your battery is in top shape, the same with the glow plugs. a gas car can start with a weak battery, a diesel won't. in extreme cold (about 10 degrees or lower) you really need to plug it in at night. there's issues with supply (most gas stations don't have diesel pumps), more maintainance, and repairs are usually much more expensive. just finding a good diesel mechanic can be a challenge. a diesel motor is also a good bit more expensive than a traditional gasoline engine. and, without a turbo dodge, your going to notice a considerable loss of power. a lot more torque, but less horse power.
that was a very interesting read, elroy5. of course i would like to have seen a ford thrown into the mix, but was not surprised that the honda finished first. and consumer reports put the nissan 1st, and motor trends named the toyota 2007 car of the year. rankings are really quite worthless. not to knock any car, but you can find a review or ranking that says exactly what you want it to say, for any car you want.
rankings are really quite worthless. not to knock any car, but you can find a review or ranking that says exactly what you want it to say, for any car you want. not necessarily, name a (full) comparison that the ford, chevrolet, and chrysler won (that they didn't pay for themselves).
i owned a volkswagen diesel 10 years ago. wow, i wouldn't expect any advances in technology over eh, a decade. current volkswagen tdis don't even have the diesel rattle, and additives to the fuel itself do a lot to make it more temperature stable. diesel in my area is also ~$0.50/gal cheaper than gasoline, and diesel vehicles will travel considerably further on each gallon. i haven't seen a gas station in se mi without diesel. glow plugs have longer replacement intervals than chevrolet plugs. i wouldn't hesitate for a second if i could find a reliable manual transmissioned diesel sedan in my price range, and i would definitely do that before going for some half gas/half electric hodge podge that has only been around for a few years. hopefully those battery packs are better than the one in my laptop, which uses the same technology.
name a (full) comparison that the ford, chevrolet, and chrysler won yea ...but the term "won" is misused.
yea ...but the term "won" is misused. ok, let's say "ranked" first, or even second.
wow, i wouldn't expect any advances in technology over eh, a decade. i'm not knocking diesel's, they do have several advantages. but most of the technological improvements have been in the area of emmisions. but they are good cars. i bought the volkswagen used for $300 with 300,000 miles on it, and kept it for 4 years. i gave it to my father in law, in perfect working order. and most of the time, it ran problem free. its just when they do have problems, they're 10x the headache than with a gas car. there are deffinitly drawbacks to them, and reasons why they've never caught on big in the states.
i disagree, it's claustrophic back there. but to each there own.
not necessarily, name a (full) comparison that the ford, chevrolet, and chrysler won (that they didn't pay for themselves). i'm sure they're out there. the point is, all these reviewers have their own preferences, and it shows. just look at c&d. they always name honda tops. the fit, honda, honda, honda, it doesn't matter. if its a honda, 9 out of 10 times they will rank it best. what did they say in that review? car of the universe? i mean, come on. be a little objective. and no, i have nothing against honda. own a honda and almost bought an honda. they're great cars, worth the money, and deffinitly a top tier car. but i just have to take c&d with a grain of salt.
the trend has already been started. mercedes is offering their bluetec. bmw has had diesels ready to go in the states for a while. they are waiting for code uniformity dealing with pollution standards.
that's easy. c/d ranked the ford 2nd in a comparo of the honda, ford, hyundai, and (previous-gen) toyota. as for the chevrolet, wasn't it mt coty in its previous incarnation? (questionable, maybe, but it counts as a #1.) and with the new chevrolet based on the same platform as the saturn, this year's nacoty, the chevrolet could take home some accolades next year. as for the chrysler... it is such a great car, some company just got paid about $500m by daimlerchrysler to take over ownership of it along with the rest of chrysler. :p
that's easy. c/d ranked the ford 2nd in a comparo of the honda, ford, hyundai, and (previous-gen) toyota. i would like to see a link to that one. i thought the ford was 4th, out of 4 in that one. questionable, coty is more than just questionable. they only consider "new designs" for car of the year. the saturn had no competition. the chances of the 08 chevrolet winning coty next year are 0%. it will have (stiff) competition.
the mazda may be a bit claustrophobic, but well, you're not the one sitting back there, are you? as for diesels, look, europe gets cold winters - winters that make most of the u.s. look like a coldsnap. and their tdi/cdi vehicles do just fine. the new honda diesel is, as honda says, "designed by a man who hates diesels" - so it's quiet and appliance-reliable. also, diesel fuel takes less resources to refine and can be blended with, well, anything. you can in theory run a diesel engine on soybean oil, corn oil, or whatever - and most of them are far more renewable than petrochemical based fuels.(even a small amount helps)
the saturn had no competition. actually yes, the toyota for one.
its easy for the media to just go with the best sellers.. keeps the sales of their mags up!
your right. diesel made his engine to run off peanut oil. and you can buy (about $600) conversion kits to run any diesel off any vegetable oil. and its not that difficult. the only thing you need diesel fuel for is starting the vehicle.
backseats, usable backseats. isn't that the point. the backseats in the mazda aren't generally usable. yes mazda can claim it's a 4 seater, but only 2 pint size individuals can be back there and not care.
the backseats in the mazda aren't generally usable. that's putting it mildly. the center console in the middle of the two seats is like a vise. a claustrophobic nightmare. does the clamshell door style qualify a car for sedan status?
i wouldn't hesitate for a second if i could find a reliable manual transmissioned diesel sedan in my price range, and i would definitely do that before going for some half gas/half electric hodge podge that has only been around for a few years. hopefully those battery packs are better than the one in my laptop, which uses the same technology. well said! diesels have come a long way in only 5 years, let alone 10. a friend of the family owns a florist here in upstate ny, and has relied on volkswagen volkswagen diesels for years. they both get about 30k miles per year, and will run 8-9 years until the body rusts out on them. they're not loud, they don't stink, and the glow plugs have to warm an extra second or two in below-zero weather, but they start right up. not to mention the 40-50 mpg he gets regularly, which in $$$$ savings more than pays off for the diesel model price premium. diesels can only get better, and i do hope honda jumps in the diesel market. they're well worth the supposed "sacrifices", and i'd take one over a hybrid any day.
i just got a used 2000 mazda 626 w/ 118,000 miles. i've had it for 2 days and now it won't go into reverse. it shifts fine when you're driving but what would cause it to not go into reverse?
does the clamshell door style qualify a car for sedan status? i don't know, but the mazda is classified as a "coupe" by edmunds.
i just got a used 2000 mazda 626 w/ 118,000 miles. i've had it for 2 days and now it won't go into reverse. it shifts fine when you're driving but what would cause it to not go into reverse? sounds like a linkage problem. why would you buy a car that had no reverse? did reverse work when you bought it? i'd take it to a mazda dealer.
update: the original post in the 2008 hyundai discussion noting that the i4 would not be available with an automatic on the 2008 hyundai was in error. in fact, the i4 will be available on all trim lines for 2008. there are a few other tweaks to the hyundai as well, e.g. more standard equipment on the se and limited. here are the details: wylldshark, "2008 hyundai hyundai" #57, 26 may 2007 8:08 am
it is easy to find the link to the c/d comparo in which the ford took 2nd via google, but here's the link for your convenience: http://www.caranddriver.com/comparisons/10245/mid-size-comparo.html
second place is nice, in that comparo. do you think it would beat out the 07 toyota though? i doubt it. i am surprised it beat out the v6 hyundai 06 toyota.
since both the kia and saturn beat out the 2007 toyota in c/d's latest comparo of family sedans, i think there is an excellent chance that the ford would beat the new toyota if c/d did that comparo. the toyota finished next to last, only ahead of the woeful chrysler, in that comparo.
so i4s & v6s across the board. nice!!
i'd agree that the ford would probably beat the 07 toyota in a comparison test if the vehicles are i4 models, but i wouldn't be so sure of it if the ford v6 was compared against a toyota v6 today. i think the ratings would change a bit. i could be wrong but i doubt it. other than subjective styling differences, lower prcing and handling, the toyota v6 (especially xle and se models) offer more in the way of standard equipment and safety features than the ford does.
second place is nice, in that comparo. do you think it would beat out the 07 toyota though? i doubt it. i am surprised it beat out the v6 hyundai 06 toyota. i don't know why. these car magazines place more emphasis on the actual "drive" than anything else, and the ford trounces the last gen toyota and current hyundai in that regard.
yes, if c/d compared the toyota se v6 to the ford v6, the toyota might take it. the old toyota v6 was only six points (i think) behind the ford in the tests of '06 models. however, c/d just doesn't seem very enamored with the '07 toyota. for example, in their comparo of basic i4 models, they noted how the kia out-toyota'd the toyota, or words to that effect.
the ford must "drive" very well. and it sounds like the toyota didn't improve in that area since 06.
yes reverse worked when i got it. i drove it for 2 days and now it won't shift into reverse. i drained the transmission fluid and it was black with a red tint so i'm wondering if the filter is clogged. everywhere i call says i need to take it to a dealership but i don't want to pay someone else for labor. i can do it myself if some knows what i should do and can tell me how to do it.
maybe you would have better luck posting this in a 626 problem thread. here's the link. http://townhall-talk.edmunds.com/webx/.ee9965a/0
this time i went to the mazda dealer to check out the ms6. i sat inside and i was impressed. fit and finish are really nice. i didnt take a test drive, but i plan on it. i heard alot of comments about how the shifter is no good, but when i was rowing through the gears the gates were very well defined and extremely easy to find w/ short throws, i dont know what will change when i actually drive it. however, the clutch is very stiff ... not sure if i could live w/ that. one problem i do have [not with this vehicle] is finding reverse on a 6speed transmissions [either left-up or down-right]. i can get can get the forward gears easy of course, but it seems like the shifter wont move farther left[ms6 has reverse up and to left]. do i need to have the car running and/or have my foot on the brake and only then will reverse open up? only manuals i have driven are when reverse is behind 5th gear [5speeds]. if someone could enlighten me, i would be extremely grateful. i did the rear seat check and it passed w/ flying colors, a 6'-0" individual can easily sit behind a driver of equal or less height. hopefully there are no glarring errors or hidden problems w/ this car. ive read about the computer fix that reduces the cars power or something, not sure. hopefully it isnt major. i am also unsure of mazda's reliability but im sure its probably solid since its an asian manufacturer. overall its one of those cars that is under the radar. does anyone have any real-world 0-60 or 0-100 times? as in, w/o doing a insane 4000rpm clutch dump. those advertised times are nice, but can only be achieved when one abuses the clutch.
i am also unsure of mazda's reliability shoot - any turbo-ed 4 cyl. isn't gonna deliver the reliability and major miles the naturally aspirated engines will. get the turbo for the short-term, high revving lifestyle, but i'd get the latest v6s for speed and reliability without the huge rpm atmosphere of the turbo and questionable long term performance.
i have driven this car a few times, it is my "stretch target." alas my price range relegates me to the more mundane boring stuff but i loved the shifter, i thought it was very precise. i recall to get reverse you push down on the shifter while moving up and to the left ala volkswagen. the contour had a collar you would pull up when shifting into reverse, but the ms6 isn't an mtx75 trans. mazda has had some issues with reliability in certain models (the 626 4 cyl w/auto, early mazda, prev gen rx7 - which use rotary engines, not like the regular inline 4s) but has a pretty hyundai reputation overall (miatas last forever, etc). i really wouldn't be too worried about a turbo motor. mazda, mitsubishi, saab, volvo and honda all have turbo motors that are well proven and the motors seem to have excellent longevity, especially in stock form. the nice thing about turbos is they offer excellent efficiency while below boost.
shoot - any turbo-ed 4 cyl. isn't gonna deliver the reliability and major miles the naturally aspirated engines will. get the turbo for the short-term, high revving lifestyle, but i'd get the latest v6s for speed and reliability without the huge rpm atmosphere of the turbo and questionable long term performance. 20 years of turbo performance and history helps me feel comfortable with a boosted motor. i wouldn't want to change technologies too fast, my 8 tracks still sound great... :p
perna, you're making me reminisce on my '02 nissan (rip). that car had some great pick up. i got to drive a mazda rental car a couple of weeks ago. i have to say i was pretty impressed with the way the car handled. it was a 4-cylinder, so not always real powerful, but zippy enough. when my brother would come to town when i had the nissan, he always liked to drive it whenever we would go out on the town, and he would punch that accelerator and make our heads kind of snap back in the seat and he'd get this look of "wonder" on his face. unfortunately, he tries to do the same thing with my '07 lexus rx. you won't get the same reaction. (this makes me laugh all the time.) while my rx has pretty good pick up for an suv, it's still not nearly as quick as the nissan was!
i'm kind of surprised you don't see more nissan's around. these are nice looking along with great performers. i wonder if they just get lost in the acura/lexus shadow..
i know this is gonna sound weird, but to me, the lucerne looks better than either the toyota or the nissan (although the nissan update helped). a 19 year old likes a buick? well, out of the choices, yeah.
the lucerne is growing on me also. but it's a full-sized car. one thing gm does not lack is styling prowess.
go test drive the lucerne cxs and you'll be even more impressed. of course, in black. the only color that it looks stunning in is black. some cars look lame in black, but this looks perfect, like mercedes e and s classes do.
swirl marks and dirt = black car.
"reasons they've never caught on big in the states" yes they never did catch on big but rather than maintenance/repair costs the real reason was and still is cheap gasoline. yeah, yeah it is over $3.00 per in most of the country but nowhere near the cost of gas in europe. diesel fuel, while still expensive is significantly cheaper there. and lets not forget some of the other reasons. americans have long memories and many remember the gm diesel fiasco in the 80's which unfortunately turned many against any sort of a diesel. then there is the lack of availability for almost any diesel (other than commercial trucks and light trucks) car or suv even though they are fabulous economy wise. also, even those who had taken a chance (owned or drove) on a diesel 20+ years ago have no idea how technology has improved them. a modern direct injection turbo diesel is quiet..quick...economical..and long lived. it does not smoke...smell..rattle excessively at idle nor is it a slug. in short, nearly no one in this country knows just how good they really are. the fuel was only recently formulated for low sulfur content (important for emissions) and only recently have workable "traps" for particulates been introduced. mercedes, i believe, can now pass epa standards. so, i too would rather have a modern diesel than a hybrid that may never give "pay back" for the large up front cost premium. this isn't even taking into account the largely unknown long term reliability of battery packs etc. however, these seem fairly reliable at this point. if honda's diesel becomes accepted (and it should) there could be a flood of diesel cars in this country, it is about time. past time really.
two things- 1) the thing that the toyota has always been and what is largely responsible for its success is that they are normally 'softer', something not high on an enthusiast mags priorities but well up there with the average american carbuyer in this class, and 2) c/ds coty award has as much to do with a car's 'significance' as it does with any evaluation of a particular car's dynamic capabilities. if 400 or 500,000 buyers a year doesn't make the toyota significant, i don't know what does. the ford v6, imo, is not even in the same league as a toyota/nissan/saturn xr/honda v6s, if for no other reason than what's under the hoods.
c/d doesn't do a coty award. maybe you are thinking about mt? that is the one that is much about "market significance." and the 2007 toyota won that award. as you noted, 400k+ buyers is pretty significant.
c/ds coty award has as much to do with a car's 'significance' as it does with any evaluation of a particular car's dynamic capabilities. i agree, the saturn didn't win a comparison with the 07 toyota, it was just more significant (being a brand new model, and not a redesign of an existing car). the ford v6, imo, is not even in the same league as a toyota/nissan/saturn xr/honda v6s, if for no other reason than what's under the hoods. i agree with this also. but, i think the ford's interior would also put it a step down from these cars.
there are many days i wish i still had my diesel volkswagen. but i agree with you 100%, i'd take a diesel over a hybrid any day of the week. i have no interest in a small subcompact car with a 1.3 liter engine. and your probably right about seeing more of them. nissan will also be putting out a diesel nissan in 2 years, i think. i had to laugh when you mentioned the gm diesel's. what a joke they were. if i remember correctly, they tried converting a gasoline engine instead of designing a true diesel engine.
the ford v6, imo, is not even in the same league as a toyota/nissan/saturn xr/honda v6s, if for no other reason than what's under the hoods. you, and i, are certainly entitled to our own options. imho, the 3.0-liter ford v6 is definitely competitive though not at the top of the mountain. the "not in the same league" comment seems off base, unless you have something on which to back up that opinion.
the ford v6, imo, is not even in the same league as a toyota/nissan/saturn xr/honda v6s, if for no other reason than what's under the hoods. you, and i, are certainly entitled to our own options. imho, the 3.0-liter ford v6 is definitely competitive though not at the top of the mountain. in the "toyota/nissan/saturn xr/accordv6" league you are talking about, it is actually bottom of the mountain for output/acceleration performance. i can't think of a car in the segment that offers less horsepower in top - v6 form, making it, the unfortunately-worded "loser" in that race (horsepower is only one aspect). same league, yyyyeah, i guess they ought to be prounounced that. they are 3.0l - 3.5l v6s, all in 3,200-3,600 lb sedans. they aren't the best incarnation/tuning of their respective engines (all but the ford make more horsepower in other variations). beats 'em in handling though.
beats 'em in handling though. not exactly grad. the v6 honda out handled the v6 ford. the ford just had a more "sporty feel", whatever that means.
to me the ford felt more nimble than the honda. the honda is very easy to drive fast, but the ford felt like it had less lean and higher limits. now lets get a wagon version of the ford and get the i4 mpg up to honda level and things are good.
not exactly grad. the v6 honda out handled the v6 ford. curiousity got me...according to whom/what? i sort of felt the ford handled better but rode harder than the honda. everything i've read sort of said that too.
" also, even those who had taken a chance (owned or drove) on a diesel 20+ years ago have no idea how technology has improved them. a modern direct injection turbo diesel is quiet..quick...economical..and long lived. it does not smoke...smell..rattle excessively at idle nor is it a slug. in short, nearly no one in this country knows just how good they really are. " it's what i traded in on my '07 nissan 3.5 se. i bought an '04 nb 5 spd gl tdi brand new in may, '04, when i was still making a 28 mile round trip up and down the north dallas tollway everyday. it broke in perfectly, only used 1/2 litre of the expensive 505.01 castrol oil in the first 5,000 miles. never got below 40 mpg in town even when new, and always averaged 45-47 over a tankfull. all its power was at the top of the pedal--going along at 65 in 5th, just had to think about it and i was around the next car. it did have an egr cooler recall at 15,000 miles, then warranty replaced my tandem pump assembly at 16,000 miles. within six months of purchase, the traditionally less-expensive than all other grades of gas diesel fuel completely traded places, remaining at or above the most expensive premium. in mid-05, i moved back to waco and retired at end of '05--driving much less. reading about some of the diesel's characteristics on another website made me kind of nervous, especially in regards to the turbo going to pieces and such--also the only volkswagen dealership being 30 miles away. when i read of the newly designed nissan with the cvt, i had to drive one and was instantly sold on it--also was getting tired of having to shift all the time. got 80% of what i paid for the volkswagen three years earlier after putting 18,500 miles on it. got the nissan on 12/21/06, has 2,600 miles on it now. within a short time, all gasoline grades had once again reverted back to being higher than any diesel, but i'm not sorry. one nice side-effect was, i discovered that i'd been hoodwinked into buying an extended warranty on the volkswagen--told it was only $106, which seemed reasonable. got a check for $806 two months after cancelling the volkswagen warranty--had two amounts on the advice of remittance attachment, one for $106.01, then another for $699.99. they got me into it with the low price, then wrapped the remainder into my balance without me ever knowing it--that'll help pay for some of the lower mileage on the nissan...
" americans have long memories and many remember the gm diesel fiasco in the 80's which unfortunately turned many against any sort of a diesel. " i actually ordered a brand new '80 olds cutlass with a diesel engine in january of 1980--i'd sold a '69 hurst olds with 36,000 miles on it for $4,000 and was using it as a downpayment on the $8,000 total price. in the meantime, i bought a '67 pontiac convertible with 57,000 miles on it from the original owner which i'd been trying to buy since 1976. this happened two weeks before the cutlass was supposed to arrive--told the dealer and he said no problem, even gave me back my $100 deposit when i said he could keep it--they could sell all the diesels they could build then. used the $4,000 for the all original pontiac--kept it almost 10 years and sold it for $12,500. bought an all original '53 cadillac which i still have--turned out to be the best thing i never did do!
grad, this is the entire paragraph from edmunds own v6 comparison test (ford 4th place). "all who drove the ford remarked that it felt the most "european" of the four. with its taut chassis, confident steering and predictable handling, the ford exhibited a sophisticated-sporty nature that even the best handler of the group, the honda honda , lacked. in this regard, the ford excels in our group, but like a bmw, the trade-off is that this attribute takes it further away from what some might call a luxurious ride. not many carmakers are ever successful in achieving both sporty and luxurious, but ford has found a reasonable compromise in the ford. we doubt anybody would say the ford rides too harshly."
i took the mazdaspeed6 for a test drive about a month ago and i thought it was great. although my v-6 version is pretty fast and a touch lighter than the ms6, the higher torque and awd was great coming out of corners. all the versions of the mazda corner much flatter than all the cars i've driven in this class, so if you like twisties, this would be easily the best car in this class. i did like the steering character of the subaru...more so than the honda. it just felt more immediate and more connected. and like my previous subaru, i found the awd was great in cornering and managing quick starts without wheel spin. but the brakes on both the honda and subaru were wanting compared to the 6. i think most tests have both of these cars stopping 10-15 feet longer than the mazda and i think the mazdaspeed has better brakes than the v-6 too. the things the honda has going for it, imo, is the quality of the interior and their best-in-class manual tranny. the mazda clutch is a bit stiff and engages quickly, but nothing you can't get used to once you start to get the timing right. so would you ever consider a coupe? the 08 honda coupe looks pretty good (much better than the sedan both current and future) and from what i've heard should be a bit more sporty than the current version. problem will be the premium you'd have to pay if you were to buy within the first 6 months of release. and after having a coupe before (an honda) and dealing with the inconveniences, i would have a hard time going back to one unless it was a second car. from a value perspective, the current mazda is hard to beat either in v-6 form or direct injected turbo4 if you value handling. and if you want/need extra hauling capacity, the v-6 has a hatchback and wagon option.
the ford v6, imo, is not even in the same league as a toyota/nissan/saturn xr/honda v6s, if for no other reason than what's under the hoods. you, and i, are certainly entitled to our own options. imho, the 3.0-liter ford v6 is definitely competitive though not at the top of the mountain. having owned the 3.0 duratec for over a year now, i'm finding that i really like this engine. it is quick revving and responsive. at lower rpms, it's quiet and very smooth while at higher rpms it has a nice linear surge of power to make things fun. i love the sound of it at higher rpms also...it has a nice growl to it. anyone read the review edmunds did of the noble m400 which uses the 3.0 duratec? sounds like an awesome car with an engine/package that outclasses a 911 or lotus. maybe the duratec 3.0 is in a different league... a higher one :surprise: also, note the video clip with audio if you want to hear the engine. here's the link: link title
how about this 3.0 liter engine? http://racing.honda.com/about/engine.aspx
i did like the steering character of the subaru...more so than the honda. it just felt more immediate and more connected. and like my previous subaru, i found the awd was great in cornering and managing quick starts without wheel spin. if you are cooking, the subaru (wagon) rotates very well on corner entry, occasionally too well, but the car feels alive in corners. heavy throttle in snow will bring the back end around also. all in all, pretty fun for something that holds car seats and a stroller.
mt, of course
with its taut chassis, confident steering and predictable handling, the ford exhibited a sophisticated-sporty nature that even the best handler of the group, the honda honda, lacked. i am confused...what is it that makes the honda the best handler? is it the 64.6 vs. 64.2 mph in the slolom??? to me handling is as much about feel as it is about a teeny tiny difference like that in performance. to me, the honda steering is was just too light, because of this it lacks the right feel (for me).
the 3.0-liter ford v6 is definitely competitive though not at the top of the mountain. certainly an opinion but something also substantiated by 'full throttle' noise levels (dbs) which is higher (by a significant amount) in the dt (77 or 78db, if i recall correctly) than anything else in this class. and before you look up another v6 that tests out at say 75 and you think 'competitive though not at the top of the mountain' do some research on the decibel scale. and then, once you get past the noise levels then you can compare the whole concept of a smooth vibration-free engine at higher rpms - something i've never seen an objective measure for, but also something easily experienced in a test drive or two. there is a lot more to an engine than simply hp figures even though the dt is deficient in that dept. as well. not at the top of the mountain, positively - not even on an upslope probably. imo the toyota 2gr is easily the most refined and advanced engine in this group, although those entrants from nissan, honda, gm, and even hyundai (probably in that order) come much closer. to many of us, what's 'under the hood' makes or breaks a car - and given that bias, any car with the dt v6 is broken. haven't had a chance to interview the 3.5 yet and it sounds like the 'new and improved' dt 3.0 is still a coupla years away. the inability of that particular mfgr to produce a truly competitive smaller engine may yet be the death of them.
i am confused...what is it that makes the honda the best handler? is it the 64.6 vs. 64.2 mph in the slolom??? to me handling is as much about feel as it is about a teeny tiny difference like that in performance. to me, the honda steering is was just too light, because of this it lacks the right feel (for me). quoted for agreement. numbers are only a part of how a car handles to me. the only way i can fairly judge handling is getting some time behind the wheel and putting it through it's paces myself, and not by what some editor at a car magazine says. having said that, is the honda the better handler imo? no. not compared to the mazda and ford. the 6/ford felt more stable in the twisties, and didn't lean nearly as much as the honda (as well as the subaru) did. again, this is all mho. does it make the 6 and ford the best handlers out there? to me, yes. to anyone else, i hope not!
i agree as well. a lot of these things are subjective, and everyone has a different opinion of what good handling is. to say that honda is the better handler just because edmunds says so is just plain silly. for all we know, someone else could have said that the ford was the better handler over the honda. what makes one magazine review more believable than the other? nothing. its all in what each individual finds to suit their needs. to sit here and say one car is better because of one review in one magazine is just plain ludicrous! my two cents at least... -thene
the 6/ford felt more stable in the twisties, and didn't lean nearly as much as the honda (as well as the subaru) did. that is another good point...a higher speed through the slolom, but with more body leaning/rolling, does not a better handler make (imo).
i don't know, the bottom line is about the numbers, i think higher slalom speeds/lower lap times mean better performance. that doesn't make for a more rewarding driving experience however.
...substantiated by 'full throttle' noise levels (dbs) which is higher (by a significant amount) in the dt (77 or 78db, if i recall correctly) than anything else in this class. and before you look up another v6 that tests out at say 75 and you think 'competitive though not at the top of the mountain' do some research on the decibel scale. noise inside the car is also affected by the amount of sound insulation, so this measurement may or may not tell you which engine is louder. you need to do some research on human hearing, not just the db scale. percieved loundness that you sense is a logarithmic function just like the db scale...so, no 3 db really is not much of a difference. you can find web sites that will let you hear this. vibrations can be affected by things other than the engine itself as well. just to clarify, i am just trying to keep thing factual. i am not on either side of the v6 engine refinement argument...i don't even own one, i have a 4 cyl.
well, back when they tested the mazda, it's number was 64.9 mph in this slolom test :p . and the honda (which has not changed, right?) was an also-ran beating only the chevrolet and the hyundai. 2003-2004 family sedan comparison test
all this talk about "best handler" leads me to ask, is the honda the best handler (in c/d's view) of the cars they recently compared to the honda, or of all family sedans? i ask this because... what about the mazda? it is an exceptional handler for a family sedan. it's also imo perhaps the best-looking of the current family sedans, even though the design is nearly five years old. and it's a terrific value right now, especially the special value edition that starts at about $20k msrp, but can be had in my town with no haggling for $16,500 (so it might be had for even less with some negotiating). it is comparable in equipment to the hyundai se i4, with 17" alloys, ground effects, blacked-out lamps, power seat, leather wheel/shifter, cd changer, and a sport cloth interior. about the only major thing it doesn't have that the hyundai does is esc. but you get best in class (?) handling, a nicely-styled interior with quality materials, and a sporty exterior (at least for a family car). if i were buying a car right now, it would be on my list (especially with my ford supplier discount and a $500-off-best-offer coupon i have for a local dealer).
well, of course, things like better insulation and engine isolation can make a difference in loudness and vibration. given that and from your comments, i guess your contention must be then that ford, for some reason, does a poorer job in this and therefore the dt is really every bit as smooth and quiet as what's in some of these other cars? horse puckey! decibels are a measure of sound energy and increase logarithimically with value but is the only measure i've ever seen of how loud any car actually is. as i said earlier, a test drive by almost anybody will certainly confirm the whole refinement issue, or if you don't choose to believe that, about any comparison/road test of any ford vehicle (3.0 dt equipped) will usually make the same comments. and lest you ford guys think this is all about 'bashing', you shouldn't take it as such, the engine issues are a simple comment that does have some historical and current basis in fact and a commentary on that particular manufacturer's continued problems building a better car. fix the engine and fix the car, imo, everybody is better off (including this country's (and mexico's) economy and the carbuyer benefits from having yet another good choice. or put another way, put the hyundai 3.3 liter in the ford and then you fusionados/6ixers would really have something to talk about!
given that and from your comments, i guess your contention must be then that ford, for some reason, does a poorer job in this and therefore the dt is really every bit as smooth and quiet as what's in some of these other cars? no, i have no idea if that is the case or not. my contentions are exactly what i posted and nothing more: 1. there may potentially be other factors, besides the engine itself, that can affect measured noise level inside the cabin. 2. 3 db is not much of a difference. 3. vibrations can be affected by things other than the engine itself as well.
the fact is the ford at idle is every bit as quiet as a honda or toyota in 4cyl or v6 form. granted, put the pedal down and the 3.0 comes to life and does growl a bit more. but 3db is not that much more. i ride in my friends 05 honda honda 4cyl and i cannot believe you folks here that claim it sounds smooth???? when he trounces the pedal it makes all kinds of racket. even with the radio going, you cannot hear the radio. perspective, and opinion are rampant. the duratec 3.0 is a proven, reliable and capable engine. and does compete in this class. finishing at most .8 seconds behind other v6's in this class. i'm sure most won't notice .8 seconds.. nor care. since they will end up paying thousands less for a comparably equipped vehicle.
at my younger daughters soccer practice i ran into a guy who for a living modifies vehicles. he said he has an 07 mercury premier v6 awd. he put on true dual exhaust, an intake, chipped it, 18" performance wheels/tires, tinted windows, spoiler. he claimed this car is outputting about 275hp. he is still under the price of a v6 toyota!!
he put on true dual exhaust - not very likely if he is still emissions legal an intake - providing the sound you are going fast without actually going fast chipped it - gotta lose the pesky speed limiter 18" performance wheels/tires - because nothing helps handling and acceleration like super heavy wheels and tires tinted windows, spoiler - at least 50 hp right there he claimed this car is outputting about 275hp. - using recreational pharmaceuticals (driver, not car) i am all for modifying vehicles, but about the only thing on that list that could do much is the chip, and i don't see that much tuning left in the computer for the chip to do that on its own.
there is no way he's getting 275 hp, but saying that an intake and exhaust won't give you performance gains is simply wrong. in fact, that will give you more power by itself than you can get from a re-flash or chip upgrade. and there's no reason why adding a true dual exhaust (if true) would impact emissions. after all an engine is just an air pump and the more air you can get in and out the more power you can make. i figure the dual exhaust and intake are worth 20 hp, tops with the chip/reflash adding another 10-15 max (and probably requiring premium fuel).
but saying that an intake and exhaust won't give you performance gains is simply wrong. in fact, that will give you more power by itself than you can get from a re-flash or chip upgrade. i am not saying there are no gains there, i am saying there is more noise than power. also, you need to look at the existing system, if you were replacing a straw with a sewer pipe, that might be something, but its not like the system isn't relatively free flowing in factory trim. i think you would have to have a pretty crummy exhaust to get 20 hp out of replacing it and if the intake is a dodge air, it only works when you are forcing air through it at a high enough velocity, and if it is a cone filter, its not really buying you anything but noise. chips can bump ignition (or valve timing) timing and re-tune fuel maps to provide better performance at the expense of fuel economy and emissions. i agree that it probably requires premium fuel. chips aren't as helpful as stand alone items, they are more to tune the car to other mods. and there's no reason why adding a true dual exhaust (if true) would impact emissions. it depends where you are located, if you are in a carb state you must have an exemption sticker stating that the component is certified as a factory replacement part. in theory, this is an epa requirement everywhere, its just carb states that police it. i guess its possible that he could have true dual manifold back exhausts with each exhaust having a second cat, but i doubt it.
why do all that work? buy the toyota with the 2gr and enjoy the same if not more power and get 30 mpg.
i would like to know what's the resale price for that "275hp mercury" vs. a plain jane toyota v6.
intake mods also decrease fuel economy.
also how much does it cost a "paying" customer to do what he did.
i would like to know what's the resale price for that "275hp mercury" vs. a plain jane toyota v6. if selling the car as a whole, i would start with the vehicle value and subtract the cost of the mods. most modified vehicles i have had experience with were "parted out" prior to being sold, where they were basically returned to stock and the performance parts were sold separately.
why do all that work? buy the toyota with the 2gr and enjoy the same if not more power and get 30 mpg. because you would be driving a toyota :p
this seems to verify that 60 mph slalom speed you posted for the honda. i'm not sure how edmunds was able to suddenly squeeze more out of the honda. was one an i4 and the others v6s? :confuse:
factory intake and exhaust systems are tuned for less noise and lower cost. adding a cold air intake and a true dual exhaust can significantly increase the airflow into and out of the engine and if you understand anything about internal combustion engines you know that's the secret to more power. a cold air intake alone can easily add 10 hp. and production vehicles routinely add 5 hp with dual exhausts. so 20 hp from that setup is more than reasonable. i'm not advocating the changes that were made or the 275 hp claim. i'm only disputing some of your claims to the contrary.
intake mods also decrease fuel economy absolutely not true. everything else being equal a less restrictive intake and exhaust can actually improve fuel economy.
i would rather be driving a bone stock toyota v6 than a "pimped" out mercury that has less power and gets less fe. the mercury isn't a bad car, but as is usual with ford, it comes with an uninspiring powertrain.
if you are letting in more air (cold air intake), you are letting in more dirt also (tests have been done to prove this). if the exhaust is less restrictive, you may gain (very little) hp, but you will loose torque at the same rate (back pressure is needed for torque). the only way a "chip" will do any good at all, is if the engine computer was severely de-tuned in the first place, and then you are probably killing your gas mileage. people will make all sorts of claims to sell their products. let's see this hot rod mercury's dyno test sheet.
thanks... i always frequent edmunds' forums, but am guilty of not reading their own comparisons. when they are typically redundant with the magazines i take, i don't see the point. i've never seen the ford come in last place though, i must admit. i hope i didn't come off as snobby in my post, i just re-read it and realized how it sounded. it wasn't intended!
the fact is the ford at idle is every bit as quiet as a honda or toyota in 4cyl or v6 form. granted, put the pedal down and the 3.0 comes to life and does growl a bit more. but 3db is not that much more. if it is 3 db louder, then it isn't every bit as quiet as the toyota or honda, is it? a little contradictory. the duratec 3.0 is a proven, reliable and capable engine. and does compete in this class. finishing at most .8 seconds behind other v6's in this class. i'm sure most won't notice .8 seconds.. nor care. since they will end up paying thousands less for a comparably equipped vehicle. in the case of engine power, you pay less and get less with the ford v6. i doubt 40 horsepower is a deal killer for everyone, but for some, it just might be.
the average motorcycle that puts on a new filter(which lets in more dirt as well, as was noted in a past post) - and a unrestricted exhaust typically gains 15-20% more power. i can easily see a car gaining 20-30hp from those mods. remember, they want them to pass smog and the easiest way to do that is to restrict it so that it's barely running at idle.
to sit here and say one car is better because of one review in one magazine is just plain ludicrous! ludicrous, nice word. the v6 honda is regarded as the #1 v6 sedan by a lot more than just "one magazine". who's word am i supposed to take as truthful? yours, i would rather take edmunds word on it, thanks anyway. but the fact remains that my v6 honda will go around a corner as fast, or faster than the v6 ford. i don't spend my entire day seeing how fast my car will go around each corner though, so i would like a nice ride too. which is another thing the honda is better at.
wrong. you can't put more air through and burn more gas and get more hp at the same time increasing fuel economy. hence the reason a lot of turbos tank in the fuel economy department.
engineerboy huh?? you have an engineering degree? your telling me by opening up the intake and the exhaust this doesn't give more hp???? :confuse: yes, you can get dual exhaust and still be legal for emmissions. just takes 2 caty converters.. for starters. by using performance wheels/tires this lightens the car, it doesn't add weight?? what are you talking about? :confuse:
"if it is 3 db louder, then it isn't every bit as quiet as the toyota or honda, is it? a little contradictory." your not reading this correctly. at idle and in normal driving conditions the ford is every bit as quiet as an honda/toyota. nail the pedal, then the noise levels change. you keep posting db levels at time when the cars are in hard acceleration. somewhere way back, maybe in the last forum.. someone posted normal db ratings for ford/toyota/hyundai/honda and all of these cars were even or with in .1 of each other... "in the case of engine power, you pay less and get less with the ford v6. i doubt 40 horsepower is a deal killer for everyone, but for some, it just might be" 40 hp looks good on paper. but in true reality its out .8 seconds... :shades:
quiet an uproar with this mercury premier mod. i'm just the messenger. this guy was probably in his late 40's early 50's and has been around the mod circuit since he was a teen. so, i have to believe he knows what he is doing. he is going to bring the car to our next practice so i can see it along with taking me for a spin! can't wait should be fun...
take a look at this site.. 30mpg for v6! not!!! http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/calculatorselectengine.jsp?year=2007&make=toyota&model=toyota
so what's your point? the ford has 48 less hp, and gets 2 mpg less than the toyota. you saying you got the shaft?
but the fact remains that my v6 honda will go around a corner as fast, or faster than the v6 ford. apparently that is the case as long as the 2006 edmunds tester is doing the driving, but not if the 2004 edmunds tester or the motor trend tester is doing the driving. actually both perform just fine going by the numbers and i think the handling issue goes back to which feels better to the driver. the motor trend comparison that was linked says this about that for the ford: if 90 percent of what matters about a car to you is how it feels in your hands, the v-6 sel version of this mazda-derived sedan could be your prize. otoh, mt has this to say about honda's handling: behind the wheel, the honda is nimble, but not devoid of awkwardness. walton: "there's a nonlinearity in the steering's response." entering a corner you feel "an initial delay, then a gain as the tires grip, and finally a caboose feeling to the rear end."
who's word am i supposed to take as truthful? yours, i would rather take edmunds word on it, thanks anyway. this is what edmunds' editors say: "editors' most wanted vehicles for 2007 sedan under $25,000 2007 mazda 6winner: 2007 mazda 6 the 2007 mazda 6 and mazdaspeed 6 hold a special place among those who have driven them. while slotted in a budget-based glorified economy car segment, the 6 offers toyota, capability and class for a surprisingly affordable price. fun to drive, with smooth power delivery from the automatic, the 6 features a slick-shifting manual transmission if you so choose. design is simple and tasteful inside and out." i have a lot of respect for edmunds too and couldn't agree more with you elroy5 :shades:
he put on true dual exhaust - not very likely if he is still emissions legal an intake - providing the sound you are going fast without actually going fast chipped it - gotta lose the pesky speed limiter 18" performance wheels/tires - because nothing helps handling and acceleration like super heavy wheels and tires tinted windows, spoiler - at least 50 hp right there he claimed this car is outputting about 275hp. - using recreational pharmaceuticals (driver, not car) funny stuff...thanks for the reality check!
he is going to bring the car to our next practice so i can see it along with taking me for a spin! can't wait should be fun... just a little heads up. if you see a toyota, nissan, saturn, or honda coming up fast from behind, grab the door handle, and hold on tight. you may be able to save the front doors at least. 275hp, that's funny.
"if it is 3 db louder, then it isn't every bit as quiet as the toyota or honda, is it? a little contradictory." your not reading this correctly. at idle and in normal driving conditions the ford is every bit as quiet as an honda/toyota. nail the pedal, then the noise levels change. you keep posting db levels at time when the cars are in hard acceleration. i do? i've never posted db, i just repeated your post. i have no idea what the db are, i assumed you were giving them correctly. maybe you are confusing me with someone else. you also never said where the ford was 3 decibels louder, just that it was, which in essence, makes it louder than the others. you said it man, not me. sorry. all my facts came from your own post. "in the case of engine power, you pay less and get less with the ford v6. i doubt 40 horsepower is a deal killer for everyone, but for some, it just might be" 40 hp looks good on paper. but in true reality its out .8 seconds... i'm not doubting that it is about 1 second's difference between the ford and the cars with more power previously mentioned. i'm saying you pay more and get more. .8 seconds is more than the difference in the ford v6 auto (7.4), and the honda honda 4-cylinder auto (8.1), according to car and driver. i'd be more than willing to bet you would say you can feel the difference that particular .7 seconds, but maybe i'm wrong. i'd bet that i could feel that difference too. either way, my simple point was that you pay more and get more. the ford is a good car, but at the bottom of the pack in horsepower/acceleration for top v6 models.
the ford is a good car, but at the bottom of the pack in horsepower/acceleration for top v6 models. i agree. but there are many cars in this class that are great. why settle for good when you can have great? ford's got too many quirkies for me. funky turn signal placement, odd hvac control location, huge door pulls, cold plastics. compare a hyundai (or an honda) to a ford and you'll see what i mean. i'm trying to get past my 2 ford that mugged me thru their ownership. its hard. the ford doesn't get me over that bitter pill. maybe a f350 will.
i agree. but there are many cars in this class that are great. why settle for good when you can have great? simple...price. a couple of thousand dollars extra for a comparable honda can make or break some people, and to others, isn't worth it at all.
why does it not surprise me you take the lowest ford 0-60 numbers and the best honda 0-60 numbers??... hmm... and you fail to mention you can get a ford v6 for less than an honda 4cyl...
looks like i hit a soft spot huh?? the toyota v6 does not get 30mpg period!
i got to ask, why is this so "funny" is it because its a ford product and not a honda or toyota? i bet this is the reason for all the skepticism. i know if it were an honda or toyota it would be golden and no questions asked..
i hear ya!@ i never got over my 2000 honda bitter pill... :sick:
"simple...price. a couple of thousand dollars extra for a comparable honda can make or break some people, and to others, isn't worth it at all." yeah!@ you finally admit the honda is thousands more than a comparably priced ford!@ and.. take a look right here at edmunds.. 10 lowest priced sedans.. no honda....
no, if i'd posted the best and worst numbers i'd post the 7.5 seconds for the honda 4-cylinder manual, and those are the best numbers in the magazine that i take, car and driver. one source, my friend. that one source had those numbers. no "best and worst" numbers in there.
i showed it a couple of weeks ago the $1,700 difference in comparably equipped cars (loaded, v6) last week. you must have missed that one? i have said it isn't $5,000 as you have claimed before, but never said honda was cheaper than ford.
then, how did our environmental protection agency's test get 31 mpg? if you and i can both get over epa numbers in our cars, why would you claim a toyota can't hit its numbers, when you don't own one and haven't driven one extensively on the highway?
i can understand that!! dad will never again even look at a chrysler product after 2 convertibles in the 90s.
yeah! you finally admit the honda is thousands more than a comparably priced ford money well spent too. pretty silly to annoint the year old ford with the kind of suzuki the honda has earned after many years of excellence. lets see where the ford is in 4-5 years and 90,000 miles on it. we know the honda will still be tight. the ford is a mystery.
money well spent too. pretty silly to annoint the year old ford with the kind of suzuki the honda has earned after many years of excellence. lets see where the ford is in 4-5 years and 90,000 miles on it. we know the honda will still be tight. the ford is a mystery. looking to be less of a mystery the more time goes on. reliability ratings are looking very good for the ford!
your telling me by opening up the intake and the exhaust this doesn't give more hp???? hmm perhaps my engineering degree helped critical analytical skills. i never said that opening up the intake and exhaust wouldn't give more hp as a general rule. i was implying that the vehicle was already designed well enough (something i assumed you would agree with, given your cheerleading) that even if you cut off the exhaust entirely, you wouldn't see that much of a performance gain. the same goes for the intake. i am a pretty big fan of modifications too and for certain vehicles it helps more than others (mainly boosted cars), but i don't know about 55 hp on a 3.0l duratec. [edit] reflecting some more, perhaps that is why he needed the chip, so that he could get rid of the rev limiter because his mods shifted the power curve above the fuel cut for the motor. moving the redline another grand or so might get it there. by using performance wheels/tires this lightens the car, it doesn't add weight?? what are you talking about? its not the concept of tires and wheels that i have an issue with, its wheels that are heavier than stock (i would like to see him weigh the 18" bling bling wheels next to the 17" stockers and see what is heavier, and then do the same for the tires. replacing the 17" stock wheels with bbs 17" (17 lbs/wheel, thats pretty light, the 18" were 23 lbs/wheel) or something that is even lighter would help, and going with a low profile r-compound performance tire would provide astounding performance while reducing weight. rotating mass is considerably worse than dead weight elsewhere on the vehicle, and also increases unsprung weight (weight not controlled by they suspension, south of the shocks/springs, as it were) which is detrimental to handling. a 14" miata alloy wheel weighs 11 lbs, just food for thought.
http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/calculatorselectengine.jsp?year=2008&make=buick&model=buick/allure omg? that's not a lucerne? and yes, that's a v8. that site is full of future models that aren't even in the press yet! also note that almost every car they test with premium gas gets roughly 2mpg average worse than regular. this is understandable as higher octane gas has less energy. so they tested with premium fin the past to get more power and regular for the fuel economy ratings. what else do you expect from corporations? heh. by the way, look at what e85 does; http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/calculatorcomparesidebyside.jsp?column=1&id=23432 we weren't imaginaing that e85 kills your gas mileage!
"the toyota v6 does not get 30mpg period" if my heavier toyota with the 3.5 can hit 30 on the highway (@ 70 - 75), why wouldn't the toyota?
wrong. you can't put more air through and burn more gas and get more hp at the same time increasing fuel economy. oh really? i know of more than a few mazda 6 owners that have replaced their standard air filter and intake with an aftermarket cold air intake (from companies like cp-e, injen, and mazdaspeed) and have actually experienced fuel economy thats 2-3 mpg better than stock. cais help the engine to breathe better, and allows them to be more efficient as well. more efficient can (and does) lead to better fuel economy. it may not be the same for all cars, but for both the 4-cyl and v6 in the mazda, not only is it possible, but it happens as well. hence the reason a lot of turbos tank in the fuel economy department. the bmw bmw has got a turbocharged v6 that puts out well over the advertised 300 hp (v8 territory) and i've seen fuel economy reports as high as 27 mpg on the highway. that's better than most v8s, and even some v6s that don't come close to 300+ hp.
ludicrous, nice word. the v6 honda is regarded as the #1 v6 sedan by a lot more than just "one magazine". who's word am i supposed to take as truthful? yours, i would rather take edmunds word on it, thanks anyway. but the fact remains that my v6 honda will go around a corner as fast, or faster than the v6 ford. i don't spend my entire day seeing how fast my car will go around each corner though, so i would like a nice ride too. which is another thing the honda is better at. glad you like my word choice. unfortunately, you didn't seem to understand that i am not trying to impose my opinion on anyone. just pointing out that because one magazine says its a better handler doesn't make it the better handler. handling is subjective. you may think the honda handles better, and someone else may think the ford does, or the nissan does, or the toyota does. it doesn't make them wrong and you right. that's the part you need to understand. there are lots of great cars out there that are better than the honda for some people. the honda is not for everyone...it's certainly not for me. -thene
"i know of more than a few mazda 6 owners that have replaced their standard air filter and intake with an aftermarket cold air intake (from companies like cp-e, injen, and mazdaspeed) and have actually experienced fuel economy thats 2-3 mpg better than stock." i don't believe it period. you cannot shove more air, burn more fuel for more hp and claim better gas mileage. and forget the highway mileage stuff. take two cars, one modified, one not modified. drive both of them exactly the same way for about 200 miles on honda/chevrolet streets. lot's of fast acceleration and braking. then tell me the modified car gets better mileage. take a turbo car and drive about 100 miles in heavy honda/chevrolet driving with fast acceleration and heavy braking. check out the resulting mileage compared to epa estimates.
i don't believe it period. you cannot shove more air, burn more fuel for more hp and claim better gas mileage. believe it. it's been proven time and time again. we're not talking about forced induction, just allowing the engine to breathe better with cooler air. the engine runs more efficiently and produces more power which means (under normal driving) you can use less throttle. one of the universal truths is that a dirty air filter kills your mpg and replacing it with a clean one improves mpg. this just takes that theory one step further.
take a turbo car and drive about 100 miles in heavy honda/chevrolet driving with fast acceleration and heavy braking. check out the resulting mileage compared to epa estimates. if you get in any car and drive like a maniac i would say you are unlikely to get the epa rated mileage. i think i am missing the point. if you get a turbo and stay under the boost or get a lpt, you will be rewarded with great fuel economy. if you boot the thing from every stoplight, my guess is that it will take its toll on mileage like any other car.
i don't believe it period. you cannot shove more air, burn more fuel for more hp and claim better gas mileage. just imagine your body as an engine. if you could increase your breathing capacity (air intake), you would be able to run more efficiently (faster/longer/less pain, etc.) than normal. same as a car. and a car can take it one step further with an exhaust, the second part of the whole breathing equation. the better an engine can "breathe", the more efficient it is.
just imagine your body as an engine. if you could increase your breathing capacity (air intake), you would be able to run more efficiently (faster/longer/less pain, etc.) than normal. same as a car. and a car can take it one step further with an exhaust, the second part of the whole breathing equation. the better an engine can "breathe", the more efficient it is. but having more oxygen reduces atp at the muscles allowing them to more efficiently burn sugars at the muscular level, so the reason you are running faster is because you can burn more fuel.
one of the universal truths is that a dirty air filter kills your mpg and replacing it with a clean one improves mpg. this just takes that theory one step further. yes, but you are likely getting less filtering and letting more dirt into the engine...is this a good thing? generally, the less restrictive the filter is the less filtering it is doing. a dirty filter reduces air flow, but actually filters better. you could let more air in by having no filter at all, too...do you want to do that to get more hp and better mpg, its just going one step further from the after market, less restrictive filters .
you could let more air in by having no filter at all, too...do you want to do that to get more hp and better mpg, its just going one step further from the after market, less restrictive filters i am not sure thats the case. most air intakes (stock or otherwise) have some type of swirl inducer or something to create more turbulent airflow going into the motor. apparently, more turbulent airflow has more exposed area for the fuel to bond with so you get better "atomization" (i think thats the term) for a better, leaner burn for more power with better mpg and still not killing emissions too much.
i had an '07 v6 xle toyota for almost 1 year. traded it for the '07 3.5altima se. my toyota got 34mpg on two lanes going 60 mph. when i was on the highway going 70 mph it fell to 31mpg. the minute i went 79, i try to keep it just under 80, it fell to 27.4. just buzzing around town was where it really hurt, i'd get 17 to 19mpg. my nissan gets 28 at 80 mph and about 21 in town.
i don't really know anything about "intakes", i am not one to do any modifying. i was only really addressing the filter issue. read things from time to time about people wanting to put less restrictive filters on cars k&n gets bandied about for instance. it pretty much has to be the case that less restrictive=more dirt.
of course you potentially allow larger dirt particles into the engine with a less restrictive filter. but i've never heard of that being a problem with k&n or similar filters or air intake kits. and we're not talking about grains of sand here - the difference is very small.
actually if you increase the filtered area you can maintain protection and increase flow. i for one would not mess with the factory filter. they want good mileage and hp, but not at the expense of engine life.
"looks like i hit a soft spot huh?? the toyota v6 does not get 30mpg period!" the v6 toyota still gets 2 more mpg highway over a v6 ford; with a 35-40hp advantage!!!!
"i know of more than a few mazda 6 owners that have replaced their standard air filter and intake with an aftermarket cold air intake (from companies like cp-e, injen, and mazdaspeed) and have actually experienced fuel economy thats 2-3 mpg better than stock" why doesn't mazda use these mods to get better gas mileage, as well as hp? it would be a very small cost for these kind of gains
"i got to ask, why is this so "funny" is it because its a ford product and not a honda or toyota? i bet this is the reason for all the skepticism. i know if it were an honda or toyota it would be golden and no questions asked.." that's life - tough luck!!! gold standards are gold standards.
"yeah! you finally admit the honda is thousands more than a comparably priced ford! and.. take a look right here at edmunds.. 10 lowest priced sedans.. no honda...." true, honda is not on of the cheapest cars out there.
"i know of more than a few mazda 6 owners that have replaced their standard air filter and intake with an aftermarket cold air intake (from companies like cp-e, injen, and mazdaspeed) and have actually experienced fuel economy thats 2-3 mpg better than stock" why doesn't mazda use these mods to get better gas mileage, as well as hp? it would be a very small cost for these kind of gains cais increase noise and there is increased risk of water getting sucked up through the intake system. i personally like the sound but given the discussion about how terrible it is that the ford is a few db louder than the whatever car they were comparing it to, it would seem having a quiet motor is pretty important. where the really big gains would be is if they used tighter engine controls and a wide-band 02 sensor. the o2 sensor would give a lot more information about the combustion process, and the fuel and ignition maps could be much better tailored to the conditions.
"i ride in my friends 05 honda honda 4cyl and i cannot believe you folks here that claim it sounds smooth???? when he trounces the pedal it makes all kinds of racket. even with the radio going, you cannot hear the radio" this is the first time i have heard of the honda's 4 cyl being called an engine that creates a racket when revved up. are you sure you were in a real honda (not the imaginary one of your dreams that has a 'rackety' engine)?
i would think mazda would have tried these solutions and come to the best arrangement. its usually quite tough to improve upon a manufacturer's design with obvious downsides.
this is almost exactly my experience with the same engine in my bigger/heavier toyota - and sure 'buzzing around town' i will usually see in the low 20s. to contend that a toyota (any other v6 engined car in this group including the ford ) can't get 30mpg is ludricrous, and pointing to the results of the new epa testing procedures equally so. all cars will lose a coupla mpg or so with the new tests, especially those v8s and/or artifically aspirated engines. my nissan 3.5 (rated at 18/27 in 03), in my wife's slightly more conservative hands, does a mpg (or so) worse as well.
i would think mazda would have tried these solutions and come to the best arrangement. its usually quite tough to improve upon a manufacturer's design with obvious downsides. a stock vehicle is full of compromises. mazda could do a cai if they weren't as worried about the sound or water intrusion. they didn't want to warranty a bunch of hydrolocked motors or hear people whining its too loud, so they didn't. as i mentioned, i'm okay with the noise and don't usually drive through lakes so i would be okay with the downsides associated with a cai. joe toyota probably wouldn't be. i personally think the honda rides too soft, while other people on this forum think its too firm. aftermarket shocks would firm up the ride considerably, as would sport springs. honda doesn't want to upset grandma honda's tender bottom so they make it a bit on the soft side. it's not a matter of improving on a manufacturing design as much as optimizing a design to meet the individual's needs.
i would think mazda would have tried these solutions and come to the best arrangement. its usually quite tough to improve upon a manufacturer's design the best arrangement for the mfr is the one that provides the most cost/benefit. a few extra hp for a midsize family sedan isn't usually worth the extra cost of a cold air intake. if they're only selling 100k vehicles and the cold air intake costs $50 more than a paper filter and plastic intake that's $5m in savings right there. if the cost is higher or the volume is higher then the savings would be even higher. noise is also a much bigger design issue than you might think. there is usually plenty of room for minor improvments if you're willing to spend some money and make slight compromises on noise and/or driveability.
hp i can understand; but wouldn't it be a great benefit if they could increase mpg by 2-3 mpg? i would think it would be well worth the effort even if it cost $50 per car. anyway, that's just me.
if they could gain 2-3 mpg by spending $50 they would do it. that would mean they could sell more higher profit suv's without paying a penalty. don't get me started on why anybody would want to buy one of them (large suv's)
hp i can understand; but wouldn't it be a great benefit if they could increase mpg by 2-3 mpg? i would think it would be well worth the effort even if it cost $50 per car. anyway, that's just me. i have no idea why they don't use wide band o2 sensors and tighter tuning, that would do it. this is exactly what happened with the 2.0l ford. it went from 34 to 37 mpg in 2005 because they better tuned the engine control parameters.
the real reason they restrict the engines is to be found on of all things, motorcycles. a restricted car that's severely choked-off creates a lot less nox emissions since there's less oxygen in the equation. they do this with bikes all the time to get them to pass the new smog laws. and what's the first thing a bike owner does? replace the stock exhaust and filter. re-jet the carbs to run for maximum power as opposed to lowest pollution.(or in a fi system, re-chip it) it makes an enormous difference in higher compression engines, which tend to be the most restricted from the factory. of course, they are right - a k&n filter was made for racing off-road, where a completely clogged with dust filter will blow up your engine. so there is a bit more wear and as a result, you'll need to change your oil every 2000 miles.
"hp i can understand; but wouldn't it be a great benefit if they could increase mpg by 2-3 mpg?" i agree with you. i would gladly pay for an upgrade to intakes/air filters/ecus etc, that provides more hp with the commesurate increase in fuel economy for about $100 worth of parts over the lifetime of the vehicle. the reason the manufacturers don't do this stuff is: 1. these methods don't increase fuel economy 2. engine longevity is potentially compromised
i got to ask, why is this so "funny" is it because its a ford product and not a honda or toyota? i do spend time on honda forums. young guys always want to know, how can i boost the power of my honda? and the answer is always the same. fast and reliable = not cheap (turbo/supercharger). fast and cheap = not reliable (nos). the fact that you believed this guy when he said he had 275hp, and then posted it on this forum, that's funny. it does not matter what the make (honda, toyota, ford, chevrolet,) these modifications you mentioned (intake, exhaust, chip) will get you at most 20hp. a far cry from 54hp. the extra noise you hear coming from the intake and exhaust are only giving you the illusion of more power.
i do spend time on honda forums. young guys always want to know, how can i boost the power of my honda? and the answer is always the same. fast and reliable = not cheap (turbo/supercharger). fast and cheap = not reliable (nos). it depends how much you want to increase power and what sacrifices to drivability you are willing to make. a 50-shot of nos isn't going to affect very much, but a 100-shot or more might start to get dangerous. you could probably run 5-7 psi on a turbo without and intercooler and with relatively poor fuel management, but if you want to run 16 or 17 or more, you should have all your ducks in a row. honda can also look at aftermarket vtec controllers, which seem to do more to move the powerband rather than raise it altogether. just swapping out intake/exhaust/chip isn't going to get you too much power but isn't really going to affect the longevity of anything either. all of my cars have had k&n filters because i like that you clean and re-use them as opposed to throwing them away. i have never had an internal engine problem based on close to 1,000,000 miles over 5 cars that have used these filters. two cars have also had cais with no ill effects excepting the attention of the local constable. what i think is funny is that a couple hundred dollar investment in hpdes or autocrosses would do more to make someone a better, faster driver than a few grand in bolt ons.
the most effective cais (letting in more air, without letting in more dirt) are the foam type, that you have to clean, then re-oil. not many people are willing to do this for the small (maybe 5 hp) gain. not to mention the prices of some cais is crazy. then there is always the chance of going through one deep puddle of water, and screwing your engine up. not worth it, to me anyway.
the honda is not for everyone...it's certainly not for me. point taken. i am not saying the honda is for everyone. i just don't agree with those who say the honda leans in turns (like a toyota or hyundai) and doesn't handle well. the honda handles with the best of them.
1. these methods don't increase fuel economy 2. engine longevity is potentially compromised 1. wrong 2. wrong again
we'll have to agree to disagree. the only real way to up hp is to chip or mod a turbo, that gives a significant performance boost at the expense of fuel economy.
mazda does offer a mazdaspeed intake which when installed by a dealer does not effect the warranty of the car. dynos have indicated that hp and torque benefit making the car a bit more responsive at lower rpms. but as lilengineerboy mentioned, it does make the car have a louder growl to it. some may like this, others not. but since the larger target market is generally more conservative, i'd expect manufacturers to compromise on some things.
why do so many people report a slight increase in fuel economy after installing a cold air intake? we're not talking about a lot - maybe 0.5-1.5 mpg but it's still an increase, not a decrease. and it's only adding maybe 10 hp - maybe 15 with an exhaust upgrade. i don't understand why that's so hard for you to accept.
why do so many people report a slight increase in fuel economy after installing a cold air intake? simple, they have to have some explanation for spending $2-300 on an air filter.
"if you and i can both get over epa numbers in our cars, why would you claim a toyota can't hit its numbers, when you don't own one and haven't driven one extensively on the highway? " i guess the same way the other person can claim the ford gets lower mileage... wow, talk about some serious bias going on here...
"lets see where the ford is in 4-5 years and 90,000 miles on it. we know the honda will still be tight. the ford is a mystery" dejavue!! i heard this same story in 2001 when i bought my ford from the honda owners. after 75,000 hard miles, towing watercraft, visiting ski areas and finding fishing spots in the cascade range.. my ford was tight as day 1, ran great and never had any issues..
"i am a pretty big fan of modifications too and for certain vehicles it helps more than others (mainly boosted cars), but i don't know about 55 hp on a 3.0l duratec." why? because its a ford engine? other makers with 3.0 engines get more hp? why can't ford? this engine is actually capable of producing over 300hp. i'll have to dig back and fine the article showing this. as a matter of fact i believe the 3.0 was put in either a lincoln or a jag and was putting out about 250-260hp.. the duratec is a great little engine and has a history of reliability and durability.
don't know, why don't you ask the folks that wrote the report? :shades:
"that's life - tough luck!!! gold standards are gold standards. " this is funny.. in your own mind my friend..
"if you and i can both get over epa numbers in our cars, why would you claim a toyota can't hit its numbers, when you don't own one and haven't driven one extensively on the highway? " i guess the same way the other person can claim the ford gets lower mileage... wow, talk about some serious bias going on here... back up the bias bus a second... in identical test conditions, the ford does get lower mileage, which validaidates the claim. when comparing apples to apples as best we can (the epa offers the best option for common ground here), the ford gets lower mileage than the toyota. there's nothing giving credence to your statement of "the toyota can not hit 30 mpg, period." maybe "in your own mind, my friend." in the real world, owners, and epa disagree with that baseless claim (or did you have basis that you didn't share with us?)
"this is the first time i have heard of the honda's 4 cyl being called an engine that creates a racket when revved up. are you sure you were in a real honda (not the imaginary one of your dreams that has a 'rackety' engine)? " ever thought maybe it is loud? i owned an honda in 2000 and it was not this "refined" sounding machine that some want others to believe. this car was loud at full throttle. i have driven both a 4cyl ford automatic and have also test drive an 06 honda 4cyl automatic. its all in what you want to believe. both of these vehicles exhibit engine noise when pushed.
i owned an honda in 2000 and it was not this "refined" sounding machine that some want others to believe. it's not " wanting to believe" scape. last i checked, lots of people had lots of different perceptions about things. which, iirc, is why you drive a ford and i drive an honda. we placed different values on different aspects of a vehicle.
this i agree with. i am seeing very good mpg numbers from my ford. i am averaging 24.2 mpg in my daily commute to work. i drive about %60 freeway to work. on my last road trip i did an amazing 32 mpg to idaho. this was per my computer and yes, i should have done it by paper also just to check. next time i will. in order to achieve this 24.2mpg i have been very conscious of my speed and acceleration from a light. i am hoping to reach at least 25-26mpg as an average.
*sigh* why? because its a ford engine? no, becuase it is already relatively optimized in that application, it doesn't require premium fuel, it doesnt have vvt, etc. other makers with 3.0 engines get more hp? why can't ford? this engine is actually capable of producing over 300hp. stock and modified motors are very different. a stock 300 hp motor isnt the same as one that has been tuned and peaky to hit 300 hp. im not saying the 3.0l duratec requires that either, just that it doesnt in the ford. i'll have to dig back and fine the article showing this. as a matter of fact i believe the 3.0 was put in either a lincoln or a jag and was putting out about 250-260hp. yes, with vvt and premium fuel, a different engine control strategy, different heads, different intake and exhaust manifolds, mildly underdriven pulleys, etc. the duratec is a great little engine and has a history of reliability and durability. you are preaching to the chior here, i think the contour w/a 2.5l v6 and a stick was one of my favorite cars ever. even that car required a lot of work to get from 170hp to the 200hp in the svt (premium fuel, revised manifolds, extrude hone intakes, higher compression, changing ignition maps, differnt exhaust system, etc).
the real reason that they restrict them is because it makes them pass emissions. no other reason. it kills low-end power and the car is barely running at idle when it pollutes the most. it also hurts emissions a bit as well, but there's just no other way to get a typical small turbo to pass smog other than remapping the ecu and restricting the exhuast and intake. fixing it - it makes the engine work like the designers wanted. some guy in germany who makes the engine designs it and then they go "oh gheez - look at the god-awful smog regulations in california!" so they tweak the auxiliary components and computers and such to make it work. but it's jsut not the way it came off the designing board. more power, better low-end peroformance, better fuel economy... but emissions are really going to be tough to pass(though it's possible with a few tricks)
"this engine is actually capable of producing over 300hp. i'll have to dig back and fine the article showing this. as a matter of fact i believe the 3.0 was put in either a lincoln or a jag and was putting out about 250-260hp.. the duratec is a great little engine and has a history of reliability and durability." i found the article for you, i remember reading it when it was first posted. 2007 noble m400 "in the united states, the m400 is classified as a kit car because its chassis, engine and transmission are sold separately. the rolling chassis is actually built in south africa, and 1g racing in hamilton, ohio, sells it for $72,500. the basic 3.0-liter ford duratec v6 is assembled by aer manufacturing in carrollton, texas, and lists for $4,400. snakebite performance, 1g racing's parts division in ross, ohio, sells the transaxle and all the ancillary turbocharging hardware for $17,700. " "motivation comes from a seemingly harmless 3.0-liter ford duratec v6 that has been transformed by two garrett gt25r turbochargers calibrated by roush racing. the turbos deliver 12.5 psi of boost with minimal lag, enough to make 425 hp and an equally impressive 390 lb-ft of torque." "a professional installer can put the noble m400 on the road in about 30 hours at a cost between $3,500 and $4,000. add it all up and you're looking at close to $100,000 for a kit car." evidently it is possible to acheive 425 hp by taking a duratec and completely rebuilding it to racing specs for a few thousand dollars while adding $17,700 worth of performance parts. that is over 140 hp per liter. i bet it has a cold air intake
"i don't understand why that's so hard for you to accept." people also report a decrease in fuel economy. why don't you accept it?
"better fuel economy" better fuel economy means lower emissions, if they can do it.
"evidently it is possible to acheive 425 hp by taking a duratec and completely rebuilding it to racing specs for a few thousand dollars while adding $17,700 worth of performance parts. that is over 140 hp per liter." let me understand this. take any engine, put $20k+ of development and parts into it and you can transform it into a monster that is not street legal. works for me.
people also report a decrease in fuel economy. why don't you accept it? i do accept that - if they drive it harder than they did before. i said "all things being equal" and "when driven normally". allowing the engine to breathe more easily (naturally, not by forcing more air in) makes it run more efficiently and a more efficient engine uses less fuel. if you don't want to accept a sound scientific theory with field test data to back it up that's your prerogative.
"in your own mind my friend" and in the minds of more than 800,000 americans every year, who buy the camcords.
since the mazda 6 has been marketed from the beginning as a sporty alrernative to mainstream family sedans, i would think mazda would have gone with the intake, even at the cost of some increase in engine noise - this target market anyway likes throaty engines.
"i guess the same way the other person can claim the ford gets lower mileage... wow, talk about some serious bias going on here... " this post makes no sense. if a ford is expected to hit epa numebrs, why wouldn't a toyota?
"this is the first time i have heard of the honda's 4 cyl being called an engine that creates a racket when revved up. are you sure you were in a real honda (not the imaginary one of your dreams that has a 'rackety' engine)? " "ever thought maybe it is loud? i owned an honda in 2000 and it was not this "refined" sounding machine that some want others to believe. this car was loud at full throttle. i have driven both a 4cyl ford automatic and have also test drive an 06 honda 4cyl automatic. its all in what you want to believe. both of these vehicles exhibit engine noise when pushed." you were referring to a racket created by revving up the honda. that is what i don't believe. i believe the honda's 4 cyl engine is universally accepted to be one of the best 4 cyl gas engines out there, as well as an engine that likes to be revved up while sounding very smooth at high revs. in fact that has been a strong point of all honda vtec and ivtec engines. not noise.
"we're not talking about a lot - maybe 0.5-1.5 mpg but it's still an increase, not a decrease." okay, so the expected increase is .5 to 1.5 and not the 2-3 mpg someone earlier stated. that makes it clearer.
folks - there's no point in arguing about v6 engines - we all know that nissan's vq series engines are the best v6 engines out there! -thene <--nissan biased
what you are leaving unsaid, (in typical scape fashion) is that under those same circumstances that you can coax 32 mpg out of your ford, a camcordima is going to do a coupla mpg better, cars you earlier claimed couldn't ever/never hit 30 mpg. how do i know this you ask? owning a couple of of them helps but also because that is what the relative difference is in the epa hwy ratings - unless, of course, you really want to try to sell the rather preposterous proposition that the epa itself is also somehow biased specifically against ford products? fact is that not only does the dt cost its owners some gas it also costs them a rather significant chunk of hp. the prices of progress, or should i say the lack of it!
folks - there's no point in arguing about v6 engines - we all know that nissan's vq series engines are the best v6 engines out there! as long as you like big engines that require premium fuel :p
while you won't get a whole lot of argument out of me (i own an nissan 3.5 and previously a coupla maximas). i am of the opinion, that the design is somehow getting a little long in tooth and the engine isn't currently as smooth and refined as the toyota 2gr (and yes, i own one of these as well). may have something to do with the c and the i on the toyota valvetrains and not on the nissan, i'm not sure. the one thing the 2 year old 2gr doesn't have that the vq does, however, is a long and proven history. the vq will be at the top of any list of the best 6 cylinder engines ever built (along with the bmw straight 6s), but i do prefer my 2gr to my wife's vq - the toyota engine being smoother, more powerful and more economical - and i too will admit to being nissan biased
big engines that require premium fuel they don't, my 240hp 03 nissan been running just fine on regular for about 75000 miles now - as in the toyota engine, the owners manual simply recommends premium 'for maximum performance'.
they don't, my 240hp 03 nissan been running just fine on regular for about 75000 miles now - as in the toyota engine, the owners manual simply recommends premium 'for maximum performance'. so you bought a performance motor and use crummy gas? i think there is some lost logic here. do you change your oil at the "recommended" intervals or do you wait 3 years between changes because it "runs fine?" if the manual says to use premium, for comparison purposes it uses premium.
not nearly the point because the difference (4 or 5 hp) is minimal. case in point - the lexus es350 rated on premium at 272 hp, the mechanically identical toyota rated at 268 on regular. i guess folks that pay the badge premium for that es expect to pay the extra $.20 a gallon, while those that buy the toyota are more sensitive to things like that. besides if anybody on this forum should understand what these new high tech engines do relative to changes in chevrolet and valve timing relative to detonation, than you would also understand that it really doesn't make any difference except for those few hp. would suggest to you that most toyota v6 drivers put regular in their cars simply because they can save a few bucks every fillup, don't hear or feel anything different with 'crummy' gas, and then by your assumptions of ignorance must wait until their oil pressure drops to 0 before they ever even open the hood again. :confuse: ">
i have a 2 gr as well, absolutely nothing wrong with using regular, as was already stated, the manual suggests for improved performance premium may be used. i can't tell a bit of difference in the few tanks of premium i tried.
but the larger market for midsize sedans isn't always interested in a throaty intake note. the enthusiasts are which is probably why mazdaspeed makes available a cai that does not destroy the factory warranty. but mazda does not want to sell the 6 to enthusiasts only...it is still a midsize sedan after all. most enthusiasts aren't too concerned if a 42" plasma will fit in the hatchback or even if their car has 4 doors. so if the 6 had a chance of growing market share from the 626, it still had to have some appeal to the larger market of those who were interested in a midsize sedan which probably meant making an attempt at keeping noise levels down (amongst other compromises that they made to make the ride more comfortable). and i'm sure mazda knew those who really were interested in modding their cars would and would be willing to pay extra for it which means more money for mazda by offering their own cai. and there are some places where you may not want a cai... for example very rainy areas that are flood prone. one other point... imagine mazda said to customers "we have a part that costs extra that will slow down your car but will make it a bit quieter at wide open throttle." that would be a hard sell imo. whereas it would be far more palatable if they were to say "we have a cai which adds power and torque while giving it a more throaty intake note." which would you rather try to sell?
would suggest to you that most toyota v6 drivers put regular in their cars simply because they can save a few bucks every fillup, don't hear or feel anything different with 'crummy' gas, and then by your assumptions of ignorance must wait until their oil pressure drops to 0 before they ever even open the hood again. i guess i lump that in the same category as those who buy the performance suspension and then replace the tires with either the cheapest thing available or a highway tire and wonder why their car doesn't handle as well as it used to. like i said before, manufacturers make cars to meet the needs of the masses. people then optimize the car for uses as they see fit. i think that if i wasn't going to spring for premium, i would go for a car that didn't require (or "recommend") it. i'm glad your vehicle is working out well for you.
nope - don't mind! and like captain said, its not required, its recommended. if you don't mind losing a little hp or fuel economy, you are more than welcome to use regular. though supposedly this new vq with the vvtl technology (i think thats the acronym) that they are going to be using in the new infiniti infiniti is supposed to be more fuel efficient than its 3.5l bretheren. btw, i don't have a car with a vq now - i have a 4cyl nissan nissan spec-v (though i sold nissan for 2 years and had plenty of enjoyment behind the wheel of an nissan/nissan/z) and now, back to your regularly scheduled honda vs. ford thread! -thene :p
have a 4cyl nissan nissan spec-v (though i sold nissan for 2 years and had plenty of enjoyment behind the wheel of an nissan/nissan/z) i think i actually prefer the spec-v to the nissan. well sized, good torque, and a real limited slip differential. oh and a nice 6 speed transmission. i also liked the nissan se-r of the last body style.
let me understand this. take any engine, put $20k+ of development and parts into it and you can transform it into a monster that is not street legal. where did it say it wasn't street legal? isn't it possible to modify an engine to that extent and still drive it on the street? some of the calloway and lingenfelter vettes and the hennessey vipers come to mind. it is kind of impressive that the duratec 30 was selected for that purpose.
and now, back to your regularly scheduled honda vs. ford thread! now that's funny .
i like it too - i have a sunburst yellow one (2003) which had the aggressive looking front facia - not the big snaggle tooth that nissan thought was a good idea it really is a fun car to drive, plus it gets good gas mileage! -thene
i like it too - i have a sunburst yellow one (2003) which had the aggressive looking front facia - not the big snaggle tooth that nissan thought was a good idea it really is a fun car to drive, plus it gets good gas mileage! the factory limited slip makes it a great car for autocross and hpdes. my friends and i had a few earlier (classic?) se-r/nx200 (sr20s) and they were very fun and easy to drive on the track. the limited slips really made a big difference coming out of the turns.
in my state, you probably would not be able to take any engine, make any ol' change and have it pass inspection. other states don't care. my definition of street legal refers to a 50 state inspection pass. and my point was anyway, give me $20k to modify an engine and i can turn any engine into a monster.
and now, back to your regularly scheduled honda vs. ford thread! now that's funny . +1
i agree, and i also think that this constant discussion of boosting performance on a midsize sedan is a bit boring. i didn't realize this was a performance car thread! instead of buying a midsize, perhaps some of this folks should consider a different model of car. this last spec i consider, especially with those models covered under the header of this thread, is its 0 to 60 time.
in order of importance 1. reputation for reliability 2. toyota 3. ergonomics/ease of operation 4. passing/merging power 5. handling 6. mpg 7. smooth ride 8. looks/style 9. price 10. brand name
for my recent purchase, it was something like: 1. toyota 2. handling 3. 4 cylinder w/5 speed automatic 4. looks/style 5. price the remaining items on your list either did not matter, i saw little difference among them, and/or felt any would be adequate.
1 mpg 2 room/toyota 3 safety 4 handling/performance 5 reliability 6 price 7 interior looks/style 8 exterior looks/style
thanks dudleyr. i knew i was leaving something out. safety revised list: 1. reliability 2. safety 3. toyota 4. ergonomics 5. power 6. handling 7. mpg 8. ride 9. looks (interior/exterior) 10. price really liked the fact that i was going from a car with 1 airbag to a car with 8 airbags.
in order of importance 1. reputation for reliability 2. toyota 3. ergonomics/ease of operation 4. passing/merging power 5. handling 6. mpg 7. smooth ride 8. looks/style 9. price 10. brand name i think one and 10 are really the same. but mine would go 1. brand name/reliability--what good is a car thats always in the shop? 2. size/interior room-- have to think about the family 3. price--not necessarily the cheapest, more of a most bang for the buck 4. looks/style-- have to look good behind the wheel :shades: 5. handling, power 6. toyota-- i think all the current mid sizes are comfortable, not going to split hairs over which is the most 7. standard feature vs. options--goes to the whole value thing 8. mpg-- gas is getting expensive 9. ergonimics--never really understood this one. may be important the first month or two, but after awhile you'll get comfortable with the button/knob setup, regardless of where they are.
my top ten 1. actual data relating to reliability 2. handling - steering feel and confidence when cornering 3. usefulness (hauling ability) 4. value 5. strong brakes 6. availability and quality of manual transmission 7. safety ratings 8. visibility from drivers seat 9. seat toyota 10. looks/ uniqueness w/ appeal
"no, becuase it is already relatively optimized in that application, it doesn't require premium fuel, it doesnt have vvt, etc. " this goes to show what little people really know about the ford. the 3.0 duratec does have vvt in the ford/mercury. this just once again shows my point about the bias against ford products. :mad:
"and in the minds of more than 800,000 americans every year, who buy the camcords." so i guess since mcdonalds sells 1 million more burgers than wendys.. mcdonalds must have the best burger for the value? i bet not...
we can go round and round.. if toyota is expected to hit epa numbers then why not ford?? get out on the net my friend. there are post in other forums with toyota v6 owners questioning their fuel mileage.. :surprise:
"as in the toyota engine, the owners manual simply recommends premium 'for maximum performance'. " this is interesting. i wonder what the hp/torque loss or mileage loss is when regular is run in the toyota.. hmmm... i'm going to have to try to find the answer on this one. i wonder why the toyota crowd never let this information be known? premium runs at least .30 cents more a gallon.. quiet a big difference in fuel costs.. when comparing other sedands in this class.. :surprise:
in order of importance 1. reputation for reliability 2. toyota 3. ergonomics/ease of operation 4. passing/merging power 5. handling 6. mpg 7. smooth ride 8. looks/style 9. price 10. brand name i would put brand name up at 1 or 2 to begin with.. we are a society that thrives on brand names..
so i guess since mcdonalds sells 1 million more burgers than wendys.. mcdonalds sells more burgers because they are cheaper, and there is one on every corner. camcords are not cheaper, and there are more ford dealers than honda/toyota dealers in my area, so there must be another reason. try again, scape2.
why do people strive to own bmw or mercedes when these vehicles don't have that great of reliability? name and status are important.
style/image are higher on some priority lists than others. i am much more concerned with what the car is made of (the sum of it's parts) than what it looks like. what you think looks stylish, others may think is ugly. some people love nissan's style, for instance. i think they make some of the wierdest looking cars on the planet. style is subjective.
this is interesting. i wonder what the hp/torque loss or mileage loss is when regular is run in the toyota.. not much, i bet. the way the premium vs regular thing was explained to me was: only cars with higher compression ratios need premium. but, all cars engine's are computer controlled, and the sensors more or less know what type of fuel you're putting in. if the sensors in a high compression engine detect low octane fuel, the computer will just compensate for it by advancing the timing and tweaking a couple other things in the engine. as it was explained to me.
" wonder what the hp/torque loss or mileage loss is when regular is run in the toyota.. hmmm." none... the advertised power rating of 268 was with regular. using 91 octane yields 4 more hp. here is a link... toyota gr engine
this just once again shows my point about the bias against ford products. i'm sure there is a bias to ford products. too many people have been burned by ford in the past. there is a reason their sales have declined as bad as they have. take me for instance. i know the ford is a good, well built car. its probably the best car ford has made in awhile. but, i've owned ford in the past, and they were nothing but problems. never major things (i wasn't constantly swapping engines) but it was just so many little things. like being pecked to death by a thousand chicks. so, about 15 years ago i started buying asian cars. and they never gave me 1/10 the hassles of the ford i owned. is it fair to hold against ford problems i had with their products 15 years ago? probably not. but as the song goes, once bitten twice shy.
i would put brand name up at 1 or 2 to begin with.. we are a society that thrives on brand names.. ok, so your list would have brand name at 1 or 2. elroy placed it a 10. where's the rest of your list? frankly, i'm not driving a $22,000 honda badge. i'm driving the best $22,000 vehicle for my needs.
why do people strive to own bmw or mercedes when these vehicles don't have that great of reliability? because there are more aspects to a car than reliability. last i checked, ford ford and honda honda don't come with things like active-steering, active seat-bolsers, 14-way power seats, sport-handling packages, 18" wheels, xenon headlights that swivel around turns, or 360 + horsepower engines, like the mercedes' and bmw of similar size. that's part of the reason people strive for bmw and merc. is prestige part of the equation? sure. but it isn't the end-all. performance, uniqueness of style... you know, some of the reasons you bought your car are probably included in the reason people buy mercedes'.
that order is basically the same as mine. reliability is always #1 to me. i don't need prestige if the car often fails this and that. to me, prestige will fade away if it does that. therefore, according to statistics, in the years that i could see, no european cars for me, only japanese for now...
"this is interesting. i wonder what the hp/torque loss or mileage loss is when regular is run in the toyota.. hmmm... i'm going to have to try to find the answer on this one. i wonder why the toyota crowd never let this information be known? premium runs at least .30 cents more a gallon.. quiet a big difference in fuel costs.. when comparing other sedands in this class?\" you just don't get it, do you? the toyota gets 268hp with regular - the lexus gets 272hp with premium. any better now?
"get out on the net my friend. there are post in other forums with toyota v6 owners questioning their fuel mileage.." and no one's complaining anything about a ford on the net?
"why do people strive to own bmw or mercedes when these vehicles don't have that great of reliability? name and status are important" have you ever driven a bmw? talk about handling, ride etc in your ford, but if someone drives probably the best handling car on the planet you think he/she does it fot status? i drive a 330i sport pkg - just for the pure fun - no status for a bmw here in nj - there's one everywhere
"get out on the net my friend. there are post in other forums with toyota v6 owners questioning their fuel mileage.." and no one's complaining anything about a ford on the net? of course not! :p kidding of course. both cars will have outliers in mileage, most are likely due to odd driving conditions (driving very short distances, or driving a lot of stop and go, or very high highway speeds, etc...). people complaining of fuel economy (regardless of the car) have to be taken with a grain of salt, because one person's idea of a "normal" drive is likely different from yours or mine. that being said, in identical, regimented, driving conditions, the toyota got higher numbers than the ford v6, honda v6, hyundai v6, and most of the other competitors as well (if not all).
"mcdonalds sells more burgers because they are cheaper, and there is one on every corner. camcords are not cheaper, and there are more ford dealers than honda/toyota dealers in my area, so there must be another reason. try again, scape2" you took the words out of my mouth elroy. i do have a few other examples that i could gove to scape, but i guess it just doesn't matter to him. he feels the world is agianst ford!!!!
don't you know thegrad; the ford is the best car ever made, and no one in the world needs anything more or less than a ford. guess every carmaker should stop making their cars and start making ford under license from ford. maybe then the us car market would look like the erstwhile east germany with the trabant (the only car that was available there for donkey's ears = the only car anyone would ever need!!!!!
"this goes to show what little people really know about the ford. the 3.0 duratec does have vvt in the ford/mercury. this just once again shows my point about the bias against ford products" so even with vvt the dt gets the least hp and worst mpg in its class? must be a wonder of an engine. no wonder people are biased.
if everyone drove them, that uniqueness that some people pride themselves on would be lost! what to do then? call it a ford? a little ford humor. *slaps own wrist*
why do people strive to own bmw or mercedes when these vehicles don't have that great of reliability? because more is better. they have more performance, more luxury, more style and sophistication. people who are willing to spend that much money on a car, are not worried about reliability issues, and the associated costs. they will probably buy a new one before the warranty runs out anyway.
only cars with higher compression ratios need premium. but, all cars engine's are computer controlled, and the sensors more or less know what type of fuel you're putting in. if the sensors in a high compression engine detect low octane fuel, the computer will just compensate for it by advancing the timing and tweaking a couple other things in the engine. as it was explained to me. it was explained to you incorrectly. the engine doesn't sense the octane level of the fuel. the engine has a knock sensor. higher compression engines need higher octane fuel that's less likely to pre-ignite or detonate (knock). using lower octane fuel in an engine designed for higher octane fuel can result in knocking which the engine computer detects and compensates by retarding (not advancing) the timing. retarding the timing reduces both power and fuel economy. if the engine can't compensate enough by retarding the timing then damage can occur.
but that's just not true. the amount it reduces the power is significantly less than the difference in energy contained in non-premium fuel versus the premium(regular has more energy in it) if you look at the epa site, there are a couple of cars that are tested with 91 and 87 - and in every case, the 91 results in 1-2mpg *less*, as expected. e85 is 30-40% less! there is no free lunch - it all is really about the amount of energy in the fuel itself and the mass it has to move.
if you look at the epa site, there are a couple of cars that are tested with 91 and 87 - and in every case, the 91 results in 1-2mpg *less*, as expected. interesting, can you indicate some specific vehicles. don't take that wrong, not disputing your information...i am honestly curious about this. i'd have assumed (if anything) marginally better mileage with higher octane.
"if you look at the epa site, there are a couple of cars that are tested with 91 and 87 - and in every case, the 91 results in 1-2mpg *less*, as expected." here are some links. the consensus is: 1. running premium in a car car designed for regular probably has no benefit and may decrease gas mileage, 2. running regular in a car designed for premium, won't hurt the engine, but performance and possibly mileage will suffer, since the engine cannot operate as efficiently as designed. http://www.straightdope.com/columns/041008.html http://www.caranddriver.com/article.asp?section_id=4&article_id=3604&page_number=1 http://ideas.4brad.com/node/277 i'm assuming you are referring to situation #1, not situation #2 in your post.
everything i posted is correct. it's not about the fuel itself - it's about how the engine is tuned and the effect that the octane rating has on the combustion process. forcing the computer to retard the timing to prevent knock will reduce both power and fuel economy. by the same token advancing the timing will increase power and fuel economy because it makes the engine more efficient. that's why reflashing or chipping a car improves power but often requires premium fuel.
that's where my factory ordered mazda will be built. i was told they also build the ford ford there. have there been any recent problems wiht the ford? press is very positive as to the 6.
adjustments will no doubt have to be made by the workers when switching from a ford to a 6. can they do it without too many problems, is the question.
from a govt site: e85 is then a blend of denatured ethanol and gasoline, therefore: denatured ethanol @ 77,815 btu/gal x 85%=66,143 gasoline @114 ,132 btu/gal x 15%=17,120 e85=83,263 btu/gal 114,132-83,263=30,869 difference. 27% less energy. but since the typical driver drives the same speed as they are used to, they press harder on the pedal to compensate instead of loafing along at 73% of the hp. since it takes more gas to make up the energy difference and the fuel itself has less energy per unit(ie - the injectors don't spray 27% more fuel) - this results in a small factor of magnification of the effect. so the real loss is closer to 35-40% mpg! too bad e85 doesn't cost 60% what gasoline does. that's the real rub - it's a hidden way for the oil compnaies to make more money. **** http://www.chevron.com/products/prodserv/fuels/bulletin/oxy-fuel/enrgycon.shtml this covers oxygenated gas. why is this important? it's a dirty trick most companies use today. they mix in mbte because it increases the octane rating. the net effect is that they make 83-85 octane gas and blend in enough ebte and additives to get it to 87, 91, or 93 octane. so the higher the octane with oxygenated gas, the worse your mileage is! with non-oxygentated gas, it should be the same, but then again, running premioum in a non-premium engine, as the previous poster pointed out above - can also result in lower mileage as most 87 rated engines don't have computers to adjust for better fuel(as opposed to premium engines which always are made to compensate for lower quality fuel) *edit - from the second link above: "but, noted schiller, only a few vehicles calibrated for regular fuel can advance timing beyond their nominal ideal setting when burning premium. " *** p.s. oxygenated e85 would yield 30% less energy - a double hit!
good analysis. but i draw a different conclusion of who is making the money. it's not big oil...it's big government, at state and national levels. national gov't takes $.184 per gallon, my state takes $.25 per gallon plus 6.3% of the wholesale price. whenever the price goes up the state grabs more money without raising the tax rate. add in all the different blends/formulations the government requires across the country and factor that into their cost of doing business. then take all of the corn which will be used to make e85 out of food chain, whether for people or animals, and you'll see nonpetroleum prices increase. how much? i don't recall, but i've read $1 a pound or more for a steak is likely. here in the great liberal north east we've had mbte and oxygenated gasoline blends mandated by our governments forced upon us for years. i believe the *$#&@ governments make more per gallon than the oil companies and certainly more that the gas station owner. and the government doesn't do dink, except sit back with their hands out to collect the money from the people who explore, drill, transport, refine, transport again and then run a retail operation to make the product readily available.
its not big government thats making money through ethanol, its the farmers. the government gets a fixed amount per gallon. but with more and more of the countries corn crop being diverted to ethanol production, the price of corn has doubled. brace yourself for a big honda in the price of beef and dairy products (cows are fed primarily corn). and we're not going to see the worst of it. a lot of poor countries depend on corn from the us. and less of it will be available for export, and at a much higher price. and to make things even worse, oil companies are now shelving plans to expand refinery capacity, because the government (especially bush) is telling everyone they're going to cut gasoline consumption by 20%. the oil companies figure no point in spending 10's of billions of dollars to expand production when washington is promising decreased consumption.
are we really using that much ethanol? i haven't seen a station that sells it yet around here (louisiana). maybe that's because i'm not looking for it though. :confuse:
its being blended into the gas. you can have up to 15% ethenol blend in a normal gasoline engine.
all excellent points, except i still believe the governments be huge beneficiaries as we will be using more gallons of fuel for the same driving. gov't taxes per gallon & my sorry state has that "gross earnings" tax on 6.3% , going to 7% on july 1. bush may be part of the problem but he's not the primary cause. in the last 30 years, every attempt to build a new refinery has been shot down. then, there's anwr, an area about the size on north carolina...they want to drill in an area less than the size of my small town and think they're talking about something like 2 square miles. the left just doesn't want any new drilling in any area they can control (within us borders)...and they block new refineries. you're right on about corn to other countries and the price of beef and dairy.
your preaching to the choir, i agree with you on most of that. the reason no new refineries have been built is primarily because its more cost effective to expand existing ones, which the oil companies do. but, as recently as the early 90's (remember the recession and .69 gas) the oil companies had a lot of extra refining capacity. the growth in the economy, and boom in trucks/suv's has eatin up that excess capacity. where bush is at fault is, he goes on tv pushing ethenol and prommising to reduce use of gasoline in the us by 20%. this makes it impossible for the oil companies to spend the billions of dollars necessary to expand capacity. it doesn't make business sense to increace refining capacity when the government (headed by, and including bush) is saying we will actually need less refining capacity in the future by lowering demand.
you're right, bush caved in to the wacko left on this, as he has done in other matters...but i dont want to start a political discussion. let's just say the all the people in d.c. are trying to tinker in a market where they don't belong (screwing up free markets and screwing consumers & then having the hutzpah to blame the oil companies). [i am not in an oil related business and don't own any oil stock, except for what is in the s&p 500 index.] but, these politicians, primarily on the left, make me crazy with their outlandish statements.
just chalk it up to the law of unintended consequences
i thought this was a great thread. it helps to understand motivation in purchase decisions. a. values 1. safety b. driving feel 2. handling (very tied to safety, imho) 3. fun to drive (very tied to handling, imho) 3a. aftermarket support for modifications and increasing the fun to drive quotient. 4. visibility - both with respect to ease of parking and lane changes, etc 5. toyota - supportive seats that will keep me in place during "spirited" driving and be comfortable on long drives 6. power/time-to-speed performance c. ownership costs 7. ease of maintenance/repair cost - i seem to have cars forever and do a lot of maintenance myself. wear items should be easy to replace. 8. insurance cost 9. purchase cost 10. style/looks/brand name most cars in this class seemed like they were close enough in interior space (back seat holds a couple of baby seats) and fuel economy (the difference between mid-20s and mid-30s will take me half a lifetime to notice)
i don't see "smooth ride" anywhere on your list. interesting, and different from most. we seem to think alike on fuel economy and style (as long as it can get into the mid 20s in everyday driving, it's good enough) and looks take a back seat to driving feel.
if everyone drove them, that uniqueness that some people pride themselves on would be lost! what to do then? call it a ford? a little ford humor. *slaps own wrist* good humor, thegraduate. gave me a chuckle. as the owners of a 2007 sel awd ford ($27,105 msrp) my wife and i do take pride in the fact that we own a car that is more distinctive than the plain jane asian models that proliferate the highways. sometimes it is good to be a little bit different and the ford is a fine example of that. we thoroughly enjoy our car. then again, i once owned a studebaker (my first car) that i really liked, too. we have generally had good experiences with ford products and currently own a 1997 3.8-liter v6 thunderbird (85,000 miles) and a 2000 2.0-liter i4 ford ford station wagon (92,000 miles) which have served us well, without any major repairs or difficulties. knock on wood. i'm sure there are legions of satisfied toyota, honda and nissan owners out there, too, as this board indicates, but the ford was/is our first choice. boz
my list: 1. reliability/durability 2. safety 3. quality 4. toyota/ergonomics 5. driving experience (performance/handling, ride) 6. style 7. value (purchase price) 8. operating costs (mpg) 9. ease of maintenance (oil changes, etc) 10. brand name i place higher importance on toyota/ergonomics than most. i'm a runner and will sometimes drive a couple of hours to run in a race. i really appreciate toyota and ergonomics on the drive home! also, there are some cars i just can't ever seem to get comfortable in (my wife's 2004 ford being one example- the new style is much, much improved in this area).
as the owners of a 2007 sel awd ford ($27,105 msrp) my wife and i do take pride in the fact that we own a car that is more distinctive than the plain jane asian models that proliferate the highways. we have generally had good experiences with ford products so would this put "distinctive style" and "brand name" at the top of your top 10? over things like mpg.
that's a very good list, bender. it mirrors my own priorities though i might find room for a category named gadgets/special features. lol. boz
good humor, thegraduate. gave me a chuckle. as the owners of a 2007 sel awd ford ($27,105 msrp) my wife and i do take pride in the fact that we own a car that is more distinctive than the plain jane asian models that proliferate the highways. sometimes it is good to be a little bit different and the ford is a fine example of that. we thoroughly enjoy our car. then again, i once owned a studebaker (my first car) that i really liked, too. we have generally had good experiences with ford products and currently own a 1997 3.8-liter v6 thunderbird (85,000 miles) and a 2000 2.0-liter i4 ford ford station wagon (92,000 miles) which have served us well, without any major repairs or difficulties. knock on wood. i can certainly understand choosing a more rare car than going with the flow, especially when the differences in them get more and more slim with each passing model-change. you mention your ford wagon... i always admired those little cars. great utility without the suv mileage penalty. i sure wish honda had more hatchbacks than just the fit, that weren't suvs (although the honda certainly blurs the line between car and suv). a honda honda sport wagon to compete with the mazda 6 wagon would be awesome to me, since i take a lot of road trips and am young enough that i really don't need a soccer-mom chevrolet or ford, and never have a need for awd (last snow in birmingham, alabama was in 2000!).
that's where my factory ordered mazda will be built. i was told they also build the ford ford there. have there been any recent problems wiht the ford? press is very positive as to the 6. i owned a 2004 mazda s that was built there and traded it for an '06 ford gt that was built there. the 6 needed a new intake manifold which was a fairly common problem wiht the first and second year models and was covered under warranty. i had it changed out during a routine oil change and it took them about an extra 15 minutes. a new one should not have the same problem. as for the ford, no common problems with that one. some people have had minor problems here and there as you'll see with every vehicle, but nothing major. flat rock is a very good and modern plant. you should have no worries.
doh and i left off a big one - it must be a manual transmission with a foot operated clutch pedal. i don't know if that is a "top 10" priority as much as a barrier to admission, if its not a stick, i am not even going to look.
i can certainly understand choosing a more rare car than going with the flow, especially when the differences in them get more and more slim with each passing model-change. well stated. very diplomatic. it was our gut feeling that there really were not a lot of differences in the mid-size sedan category, but that the ford had an edge in "sportiness." plus we are fortunate to have a really exceptional ford, lincoln, mercury dealer in our berg and have had generally good experiences with fomoco products as a rule of thumb. you mention your ford wagon... i always admired those little cars. great utility without the suv mileage penalty. i sure wish honda had more hatchbacks than just the fit, that weren't suvs (although the honda certainly blurs the line between car and suv). the ford wagon has been a great little utility vehicle, a mini suv as it were. unfortunately, ford is doing away with all of its ford hatchbacks and station wagons in 2008. the new foci will only be available as a four-door or two-door sedan. if i were going to replace the ford i'd probably go with the honda fit. that's about the closest thing to it, especially in the price range. the only other option would be a bare bones utility pickup, like a ford ranger or mazda, which is a see-same deal. the awd option is not something i would have ordered. that's how the car was equipped on the lot. it only snows once or twice a year in our section of maryland. there is also a rather serious gas mileage penalty associated with awd. our v6 only manages 14.8 mpg in all-honda driving after 3,200 miles, but will deliver 24-26 on road trips. talk about ironies, we traded a 2000 mazda miata convertible in on the ford. the miata, purchased new by my then 80-year-old mother, only had 7,500 original miles on it. mom only drove it to church on sundays, to the grocery store, to the bank and to the beauty parlor. the miata is definitely a true sports car, a ton of fun but not a very practical vehicle. we inherited it when mom had an accident in it and i took away her driver's license. i really had my heart set on a new honda. the wife wanted a ford. we compromised on the ford, which is absolutely one of ford's better ideas in the last few years. the ford's styling is definitely bold, out of the mainstream. that suits us but it might not be everyone's cup of tea. to be sure, the toyota and honda sit atop of the mid-size market segment, with good reason, i'm sure.
+1 i forgot as well... maybe it fits under "driving experience"
we compromised on the ford, which is absolutely one of ford's better ideas in the last few years. the ford's styling is definitely bold, out of the mainstream. that suits us but it might not be everyone's cup of tea. to be sure, the toyota and honda sit atop of the mid-size market segment, with good reason, i'm sure. sounds like a good compromise. great handling with a practical/reliable side to it too. i know a few people in this forum who would argue that the honda and toyota float by on name alone, but as the driver i've one, i'd disagree with them and agree with you; they sit atop the segment for a good reason: they appeal to the most people (which in itself is a detriment to people not wanting to drive what the jones' have down the street). i wasn't as concerned with the nameplate i was buying as i was the driving experience, and with our rough roads, the honda has the best compromise of sport and toyota for my driving style. i'd assume it is a big selling point to a lot of people, just as the toyota gets a lot of praise for its velvety ride.
which model/options did you order? and do you have to wait long to get yours? regardless, congrats and hope you like your mazda as much as i have been enjoying mine!
that's a very good list, bender. it mirrors my own priorities though i might find room for a category named gadgets/special features. part of my considerations were how many gadgets and accessories i could buy with the money i saved if i had bought one of the other cars i was considering. that's not to say i "settled." there were three cars i was willing to buy and it came down to which one i could get the best deal on. each had their virtues and each had their negatives. , but when i realized my decision to buy the mazda for the price that was offered, i could also buy a plasma tv, dslr, window tint, short shifter, and other miscellaneous items and still have money left over compared to the other choices, the decision became very easy.
sounds like a good compromise. great handling with a practical/reliable side to it too. i know a few people in this forum who would argue that the honda and toyota float by on name alone i doubt it too. nameplate may get someone into the dealership for a test drive, but i doubt many people will spend 20-30k just bassed on name.
adjustments will no doubt have to be made by the workers when switching from a ford to a 6. can they do it without too many problems, is the question. i think you may have misunderstood his statement. the 6 is built side-by-side with the ford at the flat rock plant, and all 6 models sold in na (excluding the mazdaspeed6) are built there, since the 6 was introduced in '03. having said that, my '04 has close to 50k miles, and has had no major issues or problems (besides a couple tsbs and a faulty gas cap).
"but when i realized my decision to buy the mazda for the price that was offered, i could also buy a plasma tv, dslr, window tint, short shifter, and other miscellaneous items and still have money left over compared to the other choices, the decision became very easy." you could also buy an hyundai and put a down payment on a vacation home. most people don't budget $30k for a car, spend $20k and then take $10k and just spend it. while i'm glad you like the mazda, it would not be my choice. i would gladly spend more to have the car i want and feel i got more in the process.
you do have to wonder when ford's relationship with the uaw as well as the other financial considerations will make it better for them to close flat rock and make the 6 along side the ford - in mexico. many parts/assemblies of the ford are made in mexico as well. they have closed 14 plants in the last year or so and likely lead the pack in the category of large cos. putting americans out of work!
hermasillo does not have the capacity to build the three ford variants as well as the three 6 variants and the ford. aai (flat rock) was just overhauled not too long ago and is a fully flexible manufacturing plant. i can't imagine they will close it any time soon. if the lincoln mkr ever gets the green light it would make sense to build it at aai given it's ford roots too.
if the lincoln mkr ever gets the green light it would make sense to build it at aai given it's ford roots too. according to a ford engineer the "ford" part of the mkr and the interceptor was all smoke and mirrors. sounds like it will either use a d3 (ford) converted to rwd or share a new aussie rwd platform.
i didn't think you'd all really listen to me when i said "back to your regularly scheduled honda vs. ford thread" i should have said "everyone send me $100 to the following address..." -thene btw - nissan is still the best! :p
think it may be the bean counters that might have their hearts/pocketboooks set on closing all us plants, understand that there currently is limited capacity down in mexico, although they are also limiting production to some level closer to how many ford they can actually sell. it has got to be a helluva lot cheaper for ford to build anything down there and easier in the respect that the 'indians aren't dictating to the chiefs'. maybe enough to justify spending a part of that last $23 billion they borrowed to expand mexican operations? i rag on ford and the other 'us' mfgrs. all the time about the damage they are doing by moving out - but the fact is that they are likely doing what they have to - to survive, although you have to wonder how those 'japanese' cos., for example, can make a fortune building what they do here.
the japanese plants here are much newer and therefore more efficient, plus they get tax breaks from the local governments in exchange for the new jobs they create. throw in the subaru costs and uaw overhead (jobs bank, e.g.) and it's pretty clear that something needs to change in detroit just to level the playing ground.

the mazda is due for a redux this fall, yet there has been no formal unveiling of a new car. does that mean there will be no new mazda for the 2008 my?? i actually wouldn't mind if the new 6 were delayed until the fall of 2008. that is when i'll be buying my next new car, and i can just imagine the great deals that could be had on a '08 mazda then, given what kind of deals are available today.
the mazda is due for a redux this fall, yet there has been no formal unveiling of a new car. does that mean there will be no new mazda for the 2008 my?? the latest i heard from a different forum is that the redesigned 6 will be unveiled at the frankfurt show, which is in late august. my opinion is that it'll be an early '09, instead of '08. other rumors: - the 2.3l 4-cyl will be bumped to 2.5l with a small power increase and better gas mileage. - the 3.0 duratec will be replaced by a 3.7l version of the revised (3.5l) duratec, modified by mazda, of course. - both engines are expected to have a 6-speed manual and 6-speed auto - awd is still being rumored, although no specifics as to which engine or transmission of course, this can all change 5 minutes before introduction, so i guess we'll have to wait and see...
thanks! although if it is intro'd in frankfurt, it could still show up in the u.s. before the end of 2007. still, '09 my seems more likely.
the 3.0 duratec will be replaced by a 3.7l version of the revised (3.5l) duratec, modified by mazda, of course. a unique perspective. tmk, even dating back into the 80s the v6s were always 100% ford whereas the 4 bangers were of mazda design. at least that is the way it was with a probe i once owned. 3.5 production is already lagging as the new new ford is behind schedule. i think there are a lot of things that ford announces plans to do and then runs out of money (and time) before they can do it. i would guess the 08 6 will still be plagued by the existing 3.0 dt and wait until ford has a chance to 'improve' it circa 09/10. i agree - wait and see.
- both engines are expected to have a 6-speed manual and 6-speed auto mmm 6 speed stick...sounds delightful woot woot :p
the new ford is not behind schedule. where do you guys get all this misinformation?
in response to zzzoom6's question, i ordered the grand touring mazda 5 door in early may. dealer said it would take 6 weeks. i kind of doubted that but went ahead and ordered anyway. my instincts were right, as mazda usa told me over the phone that the build date would not be until early july and and delivery mid to late august. she said it has to go to san diego first and then to the dealer here in northern california. (i don't know what they do to it in san diego.) there is one grant touring mazda 5 door in california right now, but it's automatic. i wanted a manual. hence the order....... anyway i chose black leather, violet gray, satin fuel door, and wind deflector. so its loaded. btw there are only a few "touring" mazda 5 door hatchbacks in california. most are base models. i don't get it. such a nice car with decent mileage. there are a few more v6's , but in my book well equipped 4cl's are the future, given prices of gas to come. i think hyundai's strategy is smart--supposedly shipping lots 08 4cl hyundai's with premium trim.
so would this put "distinctive style" and "brand name" at the top of your top 10? over things like mpg. i wouldn't say at the top of the list, but pretty high up. the revised epa estimate for our v6 awd ford is only 17 mpg honda, 24 mpg highway, which is not good, but something we have to accept. obviously, "distinctive style" is a bit higher on our list than mpg, as is the ford brand name.
new spy shots (from april anyway) of the 2008 mazda. notice that the next 6 is larger. someone mentioned that it will get the 3.7l v6 but i've only heard of it getting the mazdafied version of the 3.5l. the 2.5l i4 seems to be true too. i wonder if the 6 will get awd as an option too?
the new ford is not behind schedule. they started hitting the lots last week. ford said spring of 2007 and it currently is spring of 2007 by my calculations.
i think hyundai's strategy is smart--supposedly shipping lots 08 4cl hyundai's with premium trim. this is what honda has been doing for years, hence the honda honda (and available with a manual transmission to boot!!), and the ford is available with a 4cyl and the sel trim level. i wonder when the 4 cylinder from the mazda will hit the ford.
also i just read in the july mt that the 3.5l is expected, and the new mazda is due out this fall . there was a spy photo of it also that gives a pretty good front and side view, and shows the streamlined greenhouse as has been reported earlier.
you could also buy an hyundai and put a down payment on a vacation home. most people don't budget $30k for a car, spend $20k and then take $10k and just spend it. while i'm glad you like the mazda, it would not be my choice. i would gladly spend more to have the car i want and feel i got more in the process. that's the thing though...i got exactly what i wanted for a lot less money than i originally budgeted for. i budgeted between 20 and 25k for my purchase and i knew that i wanted something pretty fun to drive, something that had a comfortable back seat, and preferrably had a good deal of hauling capability. after my test drives, i thought the honda, subaru gt, and mazda would meet my needs, so the shopping began. once i saw what i could get a mazda for, i jumped at the chance. it's been a great car that has exceeded my expectations. i'm sure i would have been happy with the other choices also, but looking back, i'm sure i would make the same choice today as i did over a year ago. and why the h*** would i want to buy an hyundai? just cuz it's cheap? when i buy something, i want something that i actually want. not something i buy and regret later and end up spending more for what i really wanted... i still had criteria that i was going to use so i made sure i got what i wanted; something reliable, fun, practical, and comfortable. and i ended up with something that looked good too! i'm just saying that saving on up-front costs was more than just a number; it was money that could be used to get a great tv, a good camera, a better shifter, a nicer looking car, and a great storage system for the hatchback. these were things that i was going to buy anyway, but knowing that i got all these things sooner while still staying under budget is a huge bonus.
sorry to hear that you have to wait so long for your car... i know i'd be getting a bit anxious, especially every time i saw a 6 drive by on the road! i'm also a bit surprised that there aren't more of those around, particularly with gas prices being what they are. i drove the four cylinder manual around and i almost got that instead of the v-6 i got. it definately has a bit less understeer going into a corner so it's very fun to drive. anyways, hope you get your car sooner rather than later... and if you have any ?s about your car, let me know.
and why the h*** would i want to buy an hyundai? just cuz it's cheap? when i buy something, i want something that i actually want. i think his point was that you could put your savings on your car (the difference of the money budgeted vs the amount spent) in a savings or investment account or similar, not that you should have gotten a less expensive vehicle. he was saying the amount you had left over "budgeted" was about the cost of a hyundai.
yup, it's crazy mazda not having ample sixes configured with manual tranny 4cl's with the higher trims. it's what the market is demanding right now it seems.
the 3.5 in the 500 was originally promised as a 2007 model to be introduced in the fall of 2006. this set of promises pretty much from day one - perhaps an apology for putting the 200 hp version dt in a car that big in the first place and certainly that car's 'fatal' flaw). never did make it. in the meanwhile, lets try giving it a new name and then even miss that date by a little better than a month (originally promised for last april), and i'm still not sure there are any out there you or i can actually drive - or more to the point put in your driveway. pricing is, however out and i'm sure ford would be very happy to take whatever deposit money you wish to leave behind for the next product that is too little too late. misinformation? ford needs to get some communication going between those bean counters controlling things and those salespeople that promise things - a problem in dearborn for several years now.
that was a delay in development of the motor. ford admittedly delayed it so they could make it more flexible for future applications. the five hundred wasn't the only model to suffer from that delay. the ford may actually even be suffering from it to an extent today and for a couple of years to come because production capacity is increasing slowly. if they had started building that engine two years ago maybe the ford would have it by now. the duratec30 in the five hundred and freestyle are low in the hp range but do perform rather well due to their cvt transmissions. from a marketing standpoint though, you are right, it was a "fatal" flaw.
the 3.0l duratec v6 was a porsche design (yes, that's correct), not ford. porsche sold the design, including all engineering drawings, etc., to ford.
edmunds story . now this i like! i'd much rather pay a small premium for a diesel engine than pay a huge premium for a hybrid that i know i'll never make the cost up for. at least with the diesel i know i'll make the extra cost up relatively quickly and not have to deal with the hybrid quirks.
now this i like! i'd much rather pay a small premium for a diesel engine than pay a huge premium for a hybrid that i know i'll never make the cost up for. at least with the diesel i know i'll make the extra cost up relatively quickly and not have to deal with the hybrid quirks. i concur and other automakers are following suit - i believe nissan is looking at a diesel as well. i wonder if gm still has any relationship with isuzu (chevette/luv diesels back in the day were isuzu designs).
i never saw april 07 as a target date. in january they said "by summer" and last time i checked summer is still 17 days away. and i don't think the 3.5 was ever promised as a 2007 model. please provide a link. as baggs32 said the 3.5 was supposed to be ready for the five hundred debut but it was delayed. however i don't think that it was ever promised for 2007.
i wonder if gm still has any relationship with isuzu (chevette/luv diesels back in the day were isuzu designs). i believe there is still an isuzu branded copy of the chevrolet and chevrolet so i'd guess yes. however i don't see gm putting a diesel in the chevrolet or any other car they make in this class. iirc the mazda and ford modeo use a ford or mazda diesel in europe so who knows there.
this is suprising given that porsche would have very little use for a 60d v6 in any of their products for the last 40 or 50 years, those engines being the boxer opposed 6s etc. can't imagine that porsche would have any reason to design something so rough and unrefined - maybe they gave up and found a willing 'sucker' in dearborn, or maybe that ford made some of their patented cost cutting 'improvements'. a cause for celebration in fordland, though, now all these dt owners can claim an engine 'designed by porsche' even it if doesn't sound or feel like one.
my source for this came from a ford sales manager back in spring 2005, after i test drove the 500 - hated the drivetrain (naturally), and told him so. again, what sales people (or public relations folks) will tell you is often what they think you want to hear and not necessarily related to ford's actual abilities to produce sufficient quantities to make promises come true. if it was, indeed, originally scheduled for the 500 debut back in 04/05, than i guess it is really about 3 years late, because you still can't get it in the thinly disguised ford. it will be interesting to see if the same sort of thing doesn't happen to the 'reengineered' 240hp 3.0 that i guess is 'scheduled' for debut in a 2010(?) ford. by then, it will be 10 years behind the nissan vq, 7 or 8 behind the honda v6, and 5 behind the toyota 2gr/hyundai 3.3 and likely still not as good as any of them are today. not to mention a solid 25 or 30hp (or more) - too little too late!
i concur and other automakers are following suit - i believe nissan is looking at a diesel as well in 2010 nissan will be making a nissan diesel available for sale in na. but the other big advantage to the diesel is its longevity. you can put 300-400-500 thousand miles or more on one. just drain the water separator and fuel filter every so often, and replace the fuel filter every 10k or so and it will run forever.
i guess you'll believe anything if it backs up your hatred of ford.
but the other big advantage to the diesel is its longevity. you can put 300-400-500 thousand miles or more on one. yea but the engine, if properly maintained, isn't the thing that's gonna break first. more like transmissions, pumps, seals, timing chains, brakes etc. the seats, carpeting, accessories etc. all get ancient and crusty - who wants to be surrounded by that for many years? not me. kinda depressing. i like the new car thing.
i guess you'll believe anything if it backs up your hatred of ford. ford has earned that emotion.
the seats, carpeting, accessories etc. all get ancient and crusty - who wants to be surrounded by that for many years? not me. kinda depressing. i like the new car thing. wow, i want your salary
the 924, 944, and 928 did not use boxer engines. of course, some may argue these are not "real porsches," but you should drive a v8-powered 928 before that statement is made. however, you are probably correct in ford's applied value-engineering. it may have been something totally different in the hands of porsche. it is a rough-sounding engine, but once you look at the block, and underside design, of the engine, it's apparent the design didn't originate in dearborn. the bottom end - externally - looks very european. here's a copy-and-paste from wikipedia on the duratec engine: "the 2.5 l and 3.0 l v6 duratecs are evolutions of the same design, first used in the 1994 ford mondeo. it is a modern aluminum dohc v6 with a 60? bank angle. the primary engineering input came from porsche, who were developing a similar v6 before selling the engineering to ford, and cosworth, who helped with cylinder head manufacturing. the jaguar aj-v6 engine is similar but adds variable valve timing. mazda's aj version also has this feature." porsche and cosworth (mike costin/keith duckworth) - not a bad lineage, even though the execution may not be to one's liking.
"you took the words out of my mouth elroy. i do have a few other examples that i could gove to scape, but i guess it just doesn't matter to him. he feels the world is agianst ford!!!! " and i guess you haven't been reading the posts in this forum??
"don't you know thegrad; the ford is the best car ever made, and no one in the world needs anything more or less than a ford. guess every carmaker should stop making their cars and start making ford under license from ford. maybe then the us car market would look like the erstwhile east germany with the trabant (the only car that was available there for donkey's ears = the only car anyone would ever need!!!!! " i wonder why this post was not removed?? :confuse:
"adjustments will no doubt have to be made by the workers when switching from a ford to a 6. can they do it without too many problems, is the question. " once again here we go.. if it were a honda or toyota plant, no questions asked they would get it righ the first time right??
once again here we go.. if it were a honda or toyota plant, no questions asked they would get it righ the first time right?? why the chip on your shoulder? he said nothing of the sort. it seems like you are resentful of having a ford by making comments like that. why do it?
and that 'hatred' might be a little strong. i have 2 big problems with ford - 1) the historical fact that they have no ability to make a good smaller engine and 2) their current policies literally paying quite a number (thousands and thousands) of their employees not to work, the economic impact of which is, i guess, yet to be determined although i feel confident in saying that the upper midwestern states are generally hurting right now. what hurts those folks in michigan, whether it be declining tax bases, swelling unemployment/welfare roles etc etc. must eventually hurt the rest of us as well. their cars are, however, improving - finally - albeit with some rather ancient technologies. it is a fact that as go the (what used to be) big 3, so goes the country. it is better for all of us that ford, if it can continue to mfgr. in this country, if it sells a bunch of whatever they attempt to sell and if it makes a good solid profit doing it, does well. a helluva lot of 'ifs'. wish them luck actually, they will need it, because none of these things are happening now or are they likely to happen in the forseeable future. in which case, this great country of ours will be facing the biggest business failure in history. to get back on this thread though, i'd hate to see truly good 'niche' cars like the mazda 3/6s (blown 4 bangers notwithstanding), go down with the ship. my prediction - by 2010 or 12 mazda will be sold off in a last ditch effort by its parent company to stay afloat and a few years later will become again the innovative and independent company (toyo koygo(?)) they once were.
the historical fact that they (ford) have no ability to make a good smaller engine... depends on your definition of "good" i guess. the 2.5l in the contour svt, the 170hp 4-cyl in the ford svt, and the 3.4l from the last sho ford come to mind as "better than average" engines (for their time).
" i know a few people in this forum who would argue that the honda and toyota float by on name alone" that'd be me your waving the wacking stick at again. i never said this you did. i simply state the honda/toyota have a whole lot riding on a past reputation. reputations fade. i am just one consumer who saw past all the cr.. and went back to spending less on vehicles, saving thousands of dollars in both interest and initial cost. got rid of my honda and never looked back..
"i doubt it too. nameplate may get someone into the dealership for a test drive, but i doubt many people will spend 20-30k just bassed on name." wrong, i have a friend who actually manages a honda dealership. his sales people alway use the honda reliability card. bashing other makes/models.. using the scare tactics.. it was used on me when i bought my honda in 2000 and i fell for it... not again, never.. once bitten, twice shy.. :shades:
why do you say this? backy is someone who didn't get a honda and bought a hyundai (iirc) because it offered a better value to him. others buying mazda 6s for a discount price are getting more value for their money, and not buying a shining h or t on the hood. it's not just you. some see the honda and toyota as appliances that are overpriced. fair enough. perception is an individual thing. the thing is, its not that you "saw past the cr." you didn't like the car. saying you don't like the car is perfectly valid. i didn't pick up a consumer reports before getting my honda, so that alone makes "seeing past it" quite difficult. i drove the car, and compared it with other cars i drove . you can't make a judgement from words and pictures, you have to feel it. those that buy it (as has been said before) likely don't spend $20,000 on a car that someone else likes that they don't care for. they had to like it too, unless they've been labotomized.
this is a joke. do you even know how many people ford employs in the u.s. compared to toyota, nonetheless honda?? looks like toyota/honda pr compaign has worked on you@! bet you didn't know toyota counts its dealership personel and other infrastructe! surprise.. :surprise: and you are wrong again with saying many parts of the ford are made in mexico. get your facts straight and stop spreading rumors.. this is the reason why i get so ticked off in this forum :mad:
it was used on me when i bought my honda in 2000 and i fell for it... not again, never.. once bitten, twice shy.. someone told you the car was reliable, even though the engine was loud and not refined to you you still bought it? why buy something on reliability alone? i just can't fathom spending $5,000 or more without trying out what i'm buying first (be it a tv, boat, car, or anything).
what does this have to do with midsize sedans? this is the reason i get ticked off... :sick: wouldn't this go better in the "media" forum?
"but the fact is that they are likely doing what they have to - to survive, although you have to wonder how those 'japanese' cos., for example, can make a fortune building what they do here." i can explain this to you.. tax breaks.. i have personally been to one of these transplants you love... hate to burst your bubble. but here goes. americans assemble the cars only. most of the high paying, skilled work force is japanese. most of the tooling is japanese, all of the replacement parts for the tooling.. japanese. should i go on?
americans assemble the cars only and pay taxes on what they earn. once again, this has nothing to do with comparing sedans' characteristics, does it? (i'm not just directing this at scape)
"i think there are a lot of things that ford announces plans to do and then runs out of money (and time) before they can do it. i would guess the 08 6 will still be plagued by the existing 3.0 dt and wait until ford has a chance to 'improve' it circa 09/10. i agree - wait and see." why are you so down on ford? grad, accordman, and you are always bashing ford. you post that ford "runs out of money". you are so out of the loop its insane!! ford only lost money in its north american operation. ford is doing fine in europe and asia. if anything, ford may pull out of na all together. ford will survive as much as you don't want them too, obviously by all your bashing.. :shades:
porsche and cosworth (mike costin/keith duckworth) - not a bad lineage, what difference does it make who designed the ford engine? does it make it run smoother, quieter, more fuel efficient, or more powerful? nope.
"the new ford is not behind schedule. where do you guys get all this misinformation?" you beat me to it! this room is full of ford bashing and misinformation about ford. when i correct, i get slammed!. ford is not behind schedule. as a matter of fact, ford is ramping up 3.5 engine capacity as we speak. the ford/sable are just the first to get the new 3.5. looks like the ford/mercury may get it in 2008/09 time frame. just in time for a model redo..
get your facts straight and stop spreading rumors.. this is the reason why i get so ticked off in this forum dude, chill... why get ticked off by such a thing? if some posters are posting incorrect information then it's up to every single one of us to make that correction. that's that, nothing more to it. people make mistakes, some are intentional but most are unintentional. is that so hard to understand? people who don't like ford doesn't mean they are out to challenge you or make you mad. they just have a different opinion, that all. last i checked, this is still a free country right? to make this post not totally irrelevant... i made this statement before and here i'll say it again: if one can't see the reason to pay the premium for honda/toyota/nissan then one shouldn't. by all means go get the less expensive midsizer like ford and hyundai. since in this case he/she would just be paying more for absolutely nothing. however, for those who can justify why the premium is worth it (like me) then there is also nothing wrong to opt for the more expensive camcords. at the end of the day... to each of his/her own.
thank you for that very clear post. it drives the point home to everyone.
"i wonder when the 4 cylinder from the mazda will hit the ford." it would bode well for ford to put the 2.5 in the ford/mercury and have at least 175hp mated to a 6speed auto/manual box. i don't see this happening, if at all until 09 model upgrade.
"the 3.5 in the 500 was originally promised as a 2007 model to be introduced in the fall of 2006. this set of promises pretty much from day one - perhaps an apology for putting the 200 hp version dt in a car that big in the first place and certainly that car's 'fatal' flaw)." why was this a "fatal flaw"??? :confuse: because once again on paper the 500/montego didn't do 0-60 in 5.2 seconds?? the dt moved the 500/montego just fine. it is a relaible and trustworthy engine. the drive train on the 500/montego is quite and sure. it is obvious to me you have never driven one. ever thought there is more to a car other than 0-60 numbers??
why was this a "fatal flaw"??? because once again on paper the 500/montego didn't do 0-60 in 5.2 seconds?? the dt moved the 500/montego just fine. it is a relaible and trustworthy engine. the drive train on the 500/montego is quite and sure. probably because it is the first detriment mentioned in most tests of that car. it was referred to as loud, and underpowered for the weight it was pulling. what do you mean it was quite and sure? i don't get it... and, it isn't a midsize sedan. ************** fortunately, the five hundred is one tasty box of sorry-about-that candy. our example is a six-speed front-drive version (a cvt is also available, as is all-wheel drive), powered by the only engine choice at the moment, a much-modified 3.0-liter duratec v-6. at a modest 203 horses, the power deficit is a bit much even for the close-ratio automatic to offset (wriggling through the cut-and-thrust of modern urban traffic produces an auditory spectacle of roaring downshifts). **************** highs: classy looks outside and in, huge interior space, whopper trunk, vista chrysler view all around. lows: underachiever v-6, six-speed auto too reluctant to downshift, front buckets are back killers. ***************** these are from two different sources.
well the 2.5 contour engine a forbearer to the 3.0 dt. the sho engine, of course, a mean true performance engine in its time - made by yamaha - a relationship that still continues to this day in volvos. the 2 liter svt engine - around only 2 or 3 years, only generated that 170hp at outrageous revs, but at least had some potential while it lasted.
oh yeah, it slipped my mind that the 3.4 was a yamaha... sorry.
the jag version is also high compression, and, has a triple level induction system. in the s type the 3.0 delivers 236 hp. in the x type, with its more restrictive exhaust system, the 3.0 makes 227 hp. hp and torque are very comparable to the na 3.0 used by bmw in the current bmw. regards: oldengineer
"years to come because production capacity is increasing slowly. " wrong.. hermi plant is at capacity.. you make it sound like "fatal flaw" means the car won't move! or does 0-60 in 15 seconds.. when in all actuality 0-60 in the 500 with the dt 3.0 is from 7.3 - 7.5 depending on what review you want to believe. please, stop spreading this misinformation.
" a cause for celebration in fordland, though, now all these dt owners can claim an engine 'designed by porsche' even it if doesn't sound or feel like one. " this is your opinion.. the dt 3.0 spins up nicely and is just as quiet as your toyota or honda engine in normal driving conditions. this was proven way, back when someone posted the db noise levels. and, before you jump.. yes, the dt 3.0 is a bit more noisy than both the honda and toyota at full throttle, once again.. full throttle. i highly doubt most people drive around at full throttle.. :shades:
well, spread the correct information. stop the madness and share the link to the 7.3 second time with us please. the first review i came to put the five hundred at 8.6 seconds. found here. the next one garnered 7.9 seconds to 60 mph: on the mechanical side, the aging 3.0-liter v-6 is good enough for fleet sales, but it'll never be a source of joy &#151; 0 to 60 takes 7.9 seconds, just a squeak ahead of the last-place kia, accompanied by a thrashing racket in the upper rev ranges. a six-speed gearbox is a theoretical advancement, but this one makes rough and poorly timed shifts when you hustle. - found here
and more ford bashing...
and the ford bashing goes on and on and on.. boy, if i were doing this to honda/toyota i would get a nasty little note! but you can! honda has its roots in indy cars! that makes my car an indy car, right?
everything he posted was his opinion of his experience, or fact, best i could tell. that doesn't equal bashing anymore than you and i posting our experiences with various cars.
"ford has earned that emotion. how? if you actually would read.. ford relaibility is very good across the board per jd powers and consumer reports. also, take a look at msn reliability data and compare an 04 ford to an 04 honda.. surprise!@. media, has been telling you for far too long that everything ford/gm is garbage and you bit into it.. :surprise:
why is this not in the media conversation, where people are looking for it?
backy is someone who didn't get a honda and bought a hyundai (iirc) because it offered a better value to him. in truth, the reason i didn't even consider honda the last time i bought a new car was not because they did not offer a good value. it was because they didn't offer a car , period (of the type i was looking for at the time). i've owned honda, loved them, and would buy a honda in a second if it offered me what i was looking for, at the right price. (e.g. if they ever decide to make a fit with a more adjustable driving position...)
haven't read the other posts, so excuse me if i duplicate. think it's time for a new 6, the old one is getting a bit baroque. mazda has one of the worst brand loyalties. probably because the 3 is a better car than the 6. when they're ready to move up they move to a similar, more expensive car with the same traits in an upscale marque.
oh come on now, by your own jaundiced view, the dt3.0 must have been just the right engine for the 500. it was so 'right' in fact that ford, needed to discontinue it after a whole 3 model years, put a razor blade grin on it, add 60 apparently smoother and quieter hp, and give it a new name. if it wasn't the engine than what killed the car? must be the lack of razor blades, because otherwise i thought the car was a quite well designed. kinda like the ford, both cars well conceived and in need of heart transplants.
so, basically, you found something to suit your needs, right? you didn't buy the brand, which was the point i was making. sorry i got it a little misconstrued, we haven't chatted in a bit!
please grad, read captans posts.. will ya!@ it is very obvious he hates ford and will make up stories and misinformation. and you back him %100.. any change you or captain or accordman get a chance you bash away at the blue oval.. and its ok. if i say something to contradict.. its game on!@
i bash ford? link me to the bashing, please.
and the 2.0 zetec.. this engine has proven to be bullit proof!@ too.. yet, lets bash away at something we know nothing about :sick:
130-145 hp from 2.0 liters doesn't ring my bell. reliable is a bonus, but it doesn't make a great engine (if it made that power and got 40 mpg, i might change my tune though ) reliability is only one aspect of a good engine, scape. i'll be waiting on my link to the bashing.
"and pay taxes on what they earn" lower pay, lower taxes earned.. :surprise:
i'll talk to you more about this on the news and views forums if you like.
i'm still waiting on that link to the ford bashing. or, were you just lying about me for sport? it makes no difference to me, i know how i truly feel about ford. i nearly purchased one.
oh, i'm chillin.. you don't know how long i have been here at edmunds and how much "misinformation" i have seen. most of it comes from the honda/toyota brethren on top of that. " if one can't see the reason to pay the premium for honda/toyota/nissan then one shouldn't. by all means go get the less expensive midsizer like ford and hyundai. since in this case he/she would just be paying more for absolutely nothing. however, for those who can justify why the premium is worth it (like me) then there is also nothing wrong to opt for the more expensive camcords. at the end of the day... ya see.. you say "less expensive" some in this room read this as "cheaper" or "cheap". thus these sedans are viewed as less than a "premium sedan". that the ford/mercury/hyundai or whichever will in no=way last as long as an honda/toyota or even an nissan!@ been down this road before my friend with my ranger in the toyota vs ranger room. ranger went over 110,000 miles with no issues.. and again in the ford room vs honda.. ford went 75,000 miles with no issues.. i look at this differently. toyota/honda used to offer great value in the 70's and 80's. they have lost that edge..
that the ford/mercury/hyundai or whichever will in no=way last as long as an honda/toyota or even an nissan! where's this posted other than by you? and why are honda owners all classified as the same egotistical bigots by you (judging by your account of how we talk)?
http://consumerguideauto.howstuffworks.com/2005-to-2006-ford-five-hundred-1.htm "an awd did 0-60 in 7.5 seconds".. here is one..
reliability is only one aspect of a good engine reliability only means that the car works when you want it to. it doesn't mean its that good of a design. a weak design (like the engine in the 500) may run and run, but who wants it to when you discover how woefully underpowered it is?
thank you. it lends much more credibility to an argument when there is a source. maybe that's why it is a requirement to cite your sources when writing anything of value that is scholastic in nature.
i think i'll come back when this forum is all about midsize sedans again. good night everyone.
source: consumer reports an article entitled 'what is an american car - 2 toyota models (the toyota and toyota) have significantly more than the ford's 60% american made parts content. read it and weep, or dismiss it as some ford 'bashing' on crs part, if you wish. i couldn't bring myself to believe it at first either - that bastion of americana the ford of all things.i believe if you research this a little though you will find a good piece of that offending 40% is under the hoods..
it would bode well for ford to put the 2.5 in the ford/mercury and have at least 175hp mated to a 6speed auto/manual box. i don't see this happening, if at all until 09 model upgrade. not auto/manual...a real manual with a foot operated clutch pedal and something that sticks up between the seats where you manually select the gear desired.
scape, this is from your own post it would bode well for ford to put the 2.5 in the ford/mercury and have at least 175hp mated to a 6speed auto/manual box. i don't see this happening, if at all until 09 model upgrade. you have also said that the ford should have the 3.5l engine, instead of the 3.0l. if they do use the 2.5 and the 3.5 liter engines in 09 it will be a generation too late. why were these engines not used to begin with? other sedans in this segment have been using higher powered engines for years now. the ford is a generation behind. buying a current generation ford is like buying the last generation of most other midsize sedans. the ford is still 4 to 5 years behind the competition, imo.
my problem with this is the same hp/lb. (1:20) ratio that would yield (let's be kind) - non-competitive acceleration capabilities, keeping in mind that some of these better engines today can and do deliver both power and economy. taking 3 steps back like this and going back even further to an early 90s engine, is not going to help fe and would kill power of course - buyers these days want both. hell, the nissan 4 banger will hit that 175hp and leave that old contour 100 miles behind before the first gas stop. technology, i believe, is the answer to better more efficient engines, not simply reducing their size.
the ford is still 4 to 5 years behind the competition, imo. the transmission is way behind too. what a huge oversight. even the base kia kia has a sportmatic shifter. the top of the line ford doesn't. just d or l.
the honda doesn't have a manumatic either. i've never longed for one, i just use the d3, 2, or 1 when i have ever needed to lower the gears manually.
so, i guess since the honda doesn't offer awd or a six speed automatic its also now behind the ford/mercury??? :confuse:
"taking 3 steps back like this and going back even further to an early 90s engine, is not going to help fe and would kill power of course - buyers these days want both. hell, the nissan 4 banger will hit that 175hp and leave that old contour 100 miles behind before the first gas stop. technology, i believe, is the answer to better more efficient engines, not simply reducing their size. are you so sure about leaving that "old contour 100 miles behind?? contour 5spd 4cyl gets 33mpg..new nissan 4cyl 35mpg. (i know, the nissan has 45 more hp, but c'mon.. its a 10 year old car). also, the v6 contour 5spd got 170hp and 30mpg..highway.. it also had a 12 gallon tank. ya know, this is dumb...
http://www.usatoday.com/money/autos/2003-03-11-cr-picks_x.htm i'm sure i'll hear the honda crowd scream over this one. i know i don't own a hyundia, but i never said i never would. i say kudos to hyundia and all the hyundia owners. once this starts to spread and get out.. i bet hyundia sales will take a nice climb... :surprise:
scape2 said: "i am just one consumer who saw past all the cr" we can't have it both ways, scape. you were right though, as a honda owner, i did love the article. it stated that the honda honda was the "top pick" in its category. so, what do we believe? hyundai is equal to honda and honda honda is the top pick? sounds reasonable to me, since the honda was my top pick too, and hyundai has been known to be improving for several years now. i guess you'll ignore this post too though, just like the ones asking you to point out my bashing of ford. oh well.
who in this forum would consider a diesel version of their current car, if the price difference was less than $1,500 and the fuel economy jumped by 30 % or more? more torque and less top end power. anyone?
why are you quoting an article from 2003? it isn't relevant in 2007. the great thing about these forums is that one can debate the pros and cons of these cars. at the end of the day, i buy the car i feel most comfortable with. in my book honda and toyota lead the segment lead the segment overall. ford has a lot of catching up to do. in the late 80s/early 90s a family sedan=ford, not any more. i think ford offers real value, but a few bucks more one gets into a better class of car.
good topic. i for one would certainly consider a diesel honda. judging by the recent edmunds report posted earlier, a diesel will be available in the next generation honda, and i can't wait to test drive it. i also think a full comparison test (price, driving experience, real-world mpg, etc.) between the upcoming honda diesel and the toyota or nissan hybrids (both toyota technology) will make a great read. i passed on the hybrid toyota mainly because of the price premium (among other reasons).
who in this forum would consider a diesel version of their current car, if the price difference was less than $1,500 and the fuel economy jumped by 30 % or more? more torque and less top end power. sign me up :shades:
i think ford offers real value, but a few bucks more one gets into a better class of car. exactly. i'll add hyundai to that statement. plus if scape bothered to check, sales of hyundai in 2007 are way off. the hyundai sold about 10,000 units last month. good car, but 10,000 units? that's hardly a movement.
beng one of those consumers that somehow doesn't 'see thru all the cr' - it is somewhat interesting to note that hyundai reliability ratings have fallen off in those 4 years since that article. understandable, imo in that it was a totally new car in 05. the ford been around less time, the jury must be regarded as 'still out', but it may hold its rather lofty position from a reliability standpoint in that in most respects it was not a truly new car at introduction. there are some advantages to using old engines/trannies and established chassis designs etc.. ford would be doing a lot better if it could approach hyundai's current product line.
i like the idea, but i'd have to reserve final judgement until i had a chance to drive it and have at least a couple years to see how it holds up. i tend not to be an early adopter since unanticipated issues often come up even though honda has done a pretty good job with their new products in the recent past. but i think a diesel would suit my current commute well(short, in honda driving). on the other hand, i don't think my criteria for choosing a car would change; a 20% increase in fuel mileage would only save me $6 a week at the most. so that means it would take me 4 years to recoup the extra expense, assuming diesel costs 20% less per gallon. since i probably will keep my car for 6+ years, it may make sense to go this route if driving dynamics and reliability are still good. but those are big "if's" and wouldn't buy into it until there was some good data showing it holds up.
grad " if one can't see the reason to pay the premium for honda/toyota/nissan then one shouldn't. by all means go get the less expensive midsizer like ford and hyundai. since in this case he/she would just be paying more for absolutely nothing. however, for those who can justify why the premium is worth it (like me) then there is also nothing wrong to opt for the more expensive camcords. at the end of the day... scape2 ya see.. you say "less expensive" some in this room read this as "cheaper" or "cheap". thus these sedans are viewed as less than a "premium sedan". i have avoided this till now, but could not contain myself any longer. let me get this straight. one person says one of the main advantages of the ford is its lower price, and that people are wasting money on a more expensive vehicle. this same person then uses an example of the ford being less expensive as an instance of ford bashing. :confuse: :confuse: :confuse: :confuse: so is being less expensive a good thing or a bad thing, or does it just depend? i (like many honda buyers) also looked at the ford. the main reason we choose the honda was that the back seat was quite a bit roomier, the fuel mileage was better, and the safety was better. if ford had a magic bullet - like a station wagon, or a diesel engine, then things might have been different. no animosity towards ford.
re: ford being less expensive... while browsing at one of our neighborhood ford motherships this weekend, i noticed that quite a few ford on the lot did not have abs, which is a $600 option from ford. i can't imagine anyone would not want abs on their midsize sedan. and if ford was looking for ways to make sure the published "base" prices would be less than the competition, i don't know that leaving abs as optional was a good choice. it certainly doesn't help their safety image imo. at least they added some structural reinforcements starting jan 2007 to help try and get the frontal crash test results in line with the competition... but without abs, ford drivers are more likely to experience a frontal crash than the competition. $600... that is 1/3 of the price difference between a ford s and my honda chrysler right there (the honda has standard abs).
that is another reason i prefer the mercury over the ford--abs is standard, and i think a power driver's seat also. and it doesn't have the gilette grille and passe clear taillamps. i've seen milans (no options) advertised in my town for around $15k. very good deal imo.
some people really don't want abs given a choice. for 08 abs will be standard on all ford so it will be a moot point anyway.
i can't imagine anyone would not want abs on their midsize sedan. and if ford was looking for ways to make sure the published "base" prices would be less than the competition, i don't know that leaving abs as optional was a good choice. it certainly doesn't help their safety image imo. i concur, this was one of the reasons i didn't see a lot of value in the new nissan. the base model is very close to 20k which is a lot of $$$ to not have some basic safety features.
"years to come because production capacity is increasing slowly. " wrong.. hermi plant is at capacity.. scape, read the posts before making comments please. my statement you quoted was clearly referring to duratec35 production. that motor is not mfd at hermosillo. good grief. :sick: i said the "fatal flaw" was that they didn't market the car right not the engine's power. good griefe x 2. :sick: :sick:
that bastion of americana the ford of all things.i believe if you research this a little though you will find a good piece of that offending 40% is under the hoods.. did they specify the engine? the v6 in the ford, ranger, and ford are build in cologne, germany and have been for years. the v8 is built in two places, one of them being windsor, ontario canada and the other is romeo michigan. iirc the windsor goes in the trucks and the romeo goes in the ford. the parts content sticker was removed from my gt so i don't know if it differed from the numbers you posted. iirc the ford's u.s. parts content is very low too.
having read this forum for several months now, i just don't get all of emphasis on 0-60 times. why is it so important? do we have a bunch of teenage drag racers on this forum or what? our 2007 3.0-liter v6 sel awd ford may not be a rocket but it certainly does have adequate pickup and passing ability. the fact that fomoco's 3.0 v6 is not as "fast" as a honda v6, or a toyota v6, or a nissan v6, means nothing to me. does that make me an old fuddy duddy? in real life, just how important (unimportant?) are 0-60 times? i just don't believe it is that big of a deal. the 3.0 may not be as sophisticated (new?) as some of the other power plants in the mid-size segment but it is certainly not an antiquated mil by any means. i mean, gee whiz, gm is still using push rod v8 engines. the other thing that bugs me is how some camcord owners have this holier than thou attitude. sure, honda and toyota are good cars but so are the ford and hyundai. i see the mid-size sedan category as being the most competitive one in the marketplace today, with there being very little difference between the makes and models. am i naive? is there one car that is head and shoulders above the competition? ok, the toyota and honda sell the most, by a large margin. is it because they are clearly superior or is it because they are perceived to be? mcdonald's sells more hamburgers than anyone else. are they the best hamburgers, all being approximately the same price? we truly enjoy our $27,105 msrp ford. the fit and finish on ours is perfect in every way. we see no room for improvement in that department. we really admire the styling and the handling is superb. we're amazed that more people are not buying the ford. i guess it just takes a while for the word to get out.
having read this forum for several months now, i just don't get all of emphasis on 0-60 times. why is it so important? do we have a bunch of teenage drag racers on this forum or what? my biggest complaint with all of this has always been seen in the ratios (which i've seen around here but don't know exactly how to link to them) of who buys what. according to what i've seen the vast majority of toyota and honda sold are equipped with an i4 and an atx. the majority, although not quite as vast as that of the camcord's, of ford sold are equipped with a v6 (atx is the only option there). don't know what it is for the hyundai. knowing this i can't see how the size or power numbers of the v6 options in the camcords sell the cars. i understand that their i4s are superior in pretty much every way to those of the ford and hyundai and have no argument as to why people buy them in insane numbers. so why put the ford down for its v6 when in all reality it is selling better than the other v6 options? the odds are in favor of the ford at the stoplight going by the numbers. i see the ford as a good compromise if you don't want an i4 and also don't want to pay the premium the models with the larger v6 options. the ford is never going to sell as well as the toyota or honda without a better i4 but it's hard to argue that it doesn't offer a lot of value in it's current form. if things continue to pick up at ford then you may see a more competitive ford in the future which would also entail another plant to mfr them which i don't believe could even be possible right now. now that i think about it, putting a grand slam mid-sized sedan out there would have actually been a mistake for ford at this point imo. if the ford were a gs and since they could only build, say, half of what shoppers demanded in the hermosillo plant, then the shoppers in this class wouldn't wait for one but rather go elsewhere because the other options are so strong too. i know that sounds crazy but if you think about it...
dudleyr, i have an '05 hyundai and find nothing offensive with the words "less expensive." in fact, i'm quite happy with the car and its features (special value gls) and tell people how relatively inexpensive it is. it was certainly less expensive than a comparably equipped toyota or honda. i view that as a "plus." afterall, people shop between dealers for the same make & model. why,...because they are hoping to find a deal that is "less expensive." my hyundai hasn't required a single trip to the dealer for anything to be corrected or fixed. i opted to go a dealer for three oil changes, but they could have just as easily been done at the nearby gas station. i have been so impressed with the '05 hyundai after 2 years and close to 15,000 miles, that we bought an '07 hyundai se as our second company car a little over three months ago. we could have paid a lot more for a lot less car.
"some people really don't want abs given a choice. for 08 abs will be standard on all ford so it will be a moot point anyway." what are some reasons why someone would not want to have abs given the choice? the only thing i can think of would be cost, but after abs has saved my butt countless times i think it is a small price to pay. i wonder if ford will raise the base price to cover the cost of the abs option after they make it standard.
the honda doesn't have a manumatic either. i've never longed for one, i just use the d3, 2, or 1 when i have ever needed to lower the gears manually. the honda may not have a sportshift but its got 4 forward gears not 2 like the ford. you're using your gears like a sportshift grad. you can't do that in a ford. i use it often in my tl and would use it as often in any other car i owned. i like that feature and benefit from its availability.
i didn't say it was reasonable or justified, but it's reality. some people think abs actually hinders straight line braking on dry roads and others don't want the added cost regardless of the safety benefits. some people would probably eschew seatbelts if they could save a few bucks.
the mazda club chat is on tonight. the chat room opens at 8:45pm et hope to see you there! check out the schedule
the honda may not have a sportshift but its got 4 forward gears not 2 like the ford. what you meant to say, i believe, is that the honda has four gearshift options while the ford only has two (drive and low). the v6 ford automatic actually has six (6) "gears/speeds." i can count on my fingers and toes the number of times that i've ever used "2" and "l" in our other automatic transmission cars. i'd toyota to say that 95 percent of the automatic drivers out there simply use "d" 95 percent of the time. manualmatics are more gimmick than anything else, but i'll concede that they do give the driver more options.
"my biggest complaint... the ratios.. of who buys what.. vast majority of toyota and honda sold are equipped with an i4 and an atx. the majority... of ford sold are equipped with a v6 (atx is the only option there). don't know what it is for the hyundai. i can't see how the size or power numbers of the v6 options in the camcords sell the cars... i understand that their i4s are superior... to those of the ford and hyundai and have no argument as to why people buy them in insane numbers. so why put the ford down for its v6 when in all reality it is selling better than the other v6 options? the odds are in favor of the ford at the stoplight going by the numbers. " good post. however, i don't think the ford 4 is as good of a v6 substitute as the honda 4. there are many magazine and edmunds articles with quotes about not needing the v6 in the honda. i don't think that has been said about the ford 4, which is a good motor in the ford/mazda but has even been quoted as a little sluggish and raucous in the ford. it is my assertion that more people who test a ford 4 would desire to step up to the v6. "i see the ford as a good compromise if you don't want an i4 and also don't want to pay the premium the models with the larger v6 options. the ford is never going to sell as well as the toyota or honda without a better i4 but it's hard to argue that it doesn't offer a lot of value in it's current form. if things continue to pick up at ford then you may see a more competitive ford in the future which would also entail another plant to mfr them which i don't believe could even be possible right now." agreed. "now that i think about it, putting a grand slam mid-sized sedan out there would have actually been a mistake for ford at this point imo. if the ford were a gs and since they could only build, say, half of what shoppers demanded in the hermosillo plant, then the shoppers in this class wouldn't wait for one but rather go elsewhere because the other options are so strong too. i know that sounds crazy but if you think about it... " if ford had put a grand slam sedan out there in the first place, then they wouldn't have had to price it below the competition and give direct to consumer incentives. perhaps dealers could have sold ford for close to msrp for a while longer than they were able to. also, it would have been great pr for ford to have demand out-pace supply. think 2005 ford, on a much larger scale!
also, it would have been great pr for ford to have demand out-pace supply. that's a position every manufacturer would love to have, not just ford.
good post. however, i don't think the ford 4 is as good of a v6 substitute as the honda 4. i agree and tried to convey that, but maybe didn't do such a good job. perhaps dealers could have sold ford for close to msrp for a while longer than they were. also, it would have been great pr for ford to have demand out-pace supply. i think that would have been a problem for them though because they would have to turn people away and that's never good. if they can really make the car great, which is probably possible in the next year or two, and find the plant capacity to produce the numbers they'll need, think ford from '85 to the mid-90s, then we might see a ford that has what everyone hoped for in this iteration of the ford. i think ford knew their limits and played it safe. look at the ford. it's first two year's sales were a surprise to ford. but there was nothing like it offered by anyone else so they had it made. i can't see that happening in mid-size world.
right, and there are also people who drive motorcycles without helmets.
"there are some advantages to using old engines/trannies and established chassis designs etc.. " here we go once again.. how is the 6spd automatic old? or the vvt added to the ford 3.0 old? its an improvement. why is it ok for honda not to have a 6spd? or autoshift? and not the ford? getting it now??
that we've dropped the silliness going on last night and gotten back to the topic. i need to point out, however, that those who continue to take the conversation off-topic and those who continue to argue with others are putting their posting privileges here at risk. we're just not going to have a repeat of the first version of this discussion. i'm repeating myself to some of you, but please note that demanding certain behaviors of other members is just as disruptive and inappropriate as posting off-topic in the first place. thanks to those who ignored the disruptions and continued with the subject. that is the way to deal with people who are posting inappropriately. of course an email to alert me to trouble is always appreciated.
bingo! its no secret that %99 of drivers use "d", "r",and "p" and thats it! its all about just being able to say "i have manushift" " i have a 260hp v6.. image once again... :shades:
really? i use my sportshift every day. i love it. i can't imagine having just d or l. maybe 40 years ago. not now. who goes around saying "i have manushift"? i guess you can't tho.
i can't imagine having just d or l. i can't imagine having d or l or p or... :p
i can't imagine having 2 pedals.
i can't imagine having just d or l. i can't imagine having d or l or p or... i can't imagine having a d or p or l at all. the ones i like say 1,2,3,4,5,6 and r. i don't have a very high regard for manu-matics, especially the ones that still use a torque converter, that is just silliness as far as i am concerned. if you want to shift, get a stick, if you want to feel like a boy racer with a slushbox, have at it.
our company consists of two people, each of whom is furnished a "company car" and each pays for personal use of the cars. we're not exactly making fleet purchases. of our present cars, one was bought in fl in '05 and the other was bought in nj in '07.
you bought a great quality vehicle. i would like to think so. so far, so good. six months and 3,200 miles later there has not been the first squeak, rattle or malfunction of any kind. about 95 percent of our driving is in-honda and the gas mileage could be better but the revised epa estimate for the v6 with awd is only 17 mpg. aside from the mileage issue, everything else about the car is perfect. we are very satisfied with our purchase. yes, i realize that there must be many satisfied honda and toyota owners, too. i, for one, choose not to bad mouth anybody else's product. to each his own i say. we've got a 10-year-old ford thunderbird with 85,000 miles on it and a 7-year-old ford ford station wagon with 92,000 miles on it. if the new ford holds up as well as those two vehicles have, we will continue to be very satisfied and continue to buy ford products. our ford seems to be a rock solid car and one that we would, at this point, wholeheartedly recommend. the bold, distinctive styling is a bonus, icing on the cake.
we are talking about midsize sedans here. all of you know where the debate about the manufacturers belong and it's not here. as i said just a few minutes ago, those who will not stay on topic are going to have their posting privileges removed. some recent posts have been deleted.
i don't have a very high regard for manu-matics, especially the ones that still use a torque converter, that is just silliness as far as i am concerned. if you want to shift, get a stick, if you want to feel like a boy racer with a slushbox, have at it. i did try to like the manu-matics once and even tried one out. it didn't take long to decide that it wasn't for me. the one i tried was in an '04 mazda v6 and it was entirely too controlling in that it shifted too early and didn't always like to shift when i wanted it too. all i wanted to do was get some engine braking going while going down a hill, a common practice in the snow around here if you have an mtx, and the goofy thing wouldn't let me!
all of the nissan nissan owners? not a single review yet? doesn't anyone on this thread own an nissan? guess not or they would have rated it, huh?
if i had a manumatic, i likely wouldn't use it unless i wanted to hold a gear for climbing/braking in hilly areas. it wouldn't be something i used in daily commuting. it would just be a more convenient version of what i already have (d, d 3 , 2, 1).
"...(where are) all the nissan owners?" well, maybe the nissan is just so much fun to drive, the owners are all out driving!
the seats, carpeting, accessories etc. all get ancient and crusty - who wants to be surrounded by that for many years? not me. kinda depressing. i didn't mean keep it forever. rather, it makes a tremendous commuter car.
all of the nissan nissan owners? not a single review yet? doesn't anyone on this thread own an nissan? guess not or they would have rated it, huh? for some reason they keep getting deleted. there were over a hundred, then they were gone. then somebody else did a review, and now its gone too.
the seats, carpeting, accessories etc. all get ancient and crusty - who wants to be surrounded by that for many years? not me. kinda depressing. if you take care of the car with some regular interior cleaning (i don't mean weekly or anything), it doesn't get "crusty." see more car pictures at carspace.com this is my honda, when it was about 10 years old (last year) with 160k miles or so on it. my grandmother never took care of it (the carpet was stained, the switchgear covered in makeup, french fries under the seat). after one afternoon of work, i had a clean example of a 10 year old car. it looks like a car half its age, if you ask me. it's got one nasty scuff on the glovebox (visible as white in the picture). other than that, it looks just fine and not at all "ancient and crusty." just getting a little dated now.
it would just be a more convenient version of what i already have (d, d3, 2, 1). exactly. so you essentially have one. in my 02 honda i was in d3 a lot for that slight braking and quicker pickup and 2 for the stop and go, bumper to bumper bs on the atlanta perimeter/ga 400 crawl without constantly riding the brake. i can't imagine driving an auto without being able to use these features.
you must not do much stop and crawl, honda traffic. putting up with it everyday is tough enough. doing it with a manual transmission would be torture. my weekend truck (06 nissan) has a stick shift. it's ok for for that purpose. not really 'fun' but not so bad. but again - everyday commuting with that? na.
i did try to like the manu-matics once and even tried one out. it didn't take long to decide that it wasn't for me. the one i tried was in an '04 mazda v6 and it was entirely too controlling in that it shifted too early and didn't always like to shift when i wanted it too. i think i tried the mazda manumatic also, and just felt it wasn't anywhere near as responsive as a good manual transmission. all i remember about it though is that it didn't leave a very memorable impression...which probably means i didn't like it much. i spent a few days with the hyundai, which had the manumatic, and i really did not like that one at all; downshifts took way too long. by the time it downshifted, i was into the corner already! even when i got more used to the timing, it just seemed to take too long. on the other hand, the subaru, if i remember correctly - my drive in that was over a year ago, i thought was pretty good. but then again, that is a pretty powerful engine in the gt version so maybe my impression of the manumatic was colored by my infatuation with their powerplant. i'm glad i tried them... but if you want control over the power of the engine, manuals are the way to go. even with stop and go traffic, i don't mind. one thing about the 6 is that first gear is perfect for just puttering along, something that i can't say about my old honda (perhaps honda have changed, but my 96 in traffic was more of a chore).
damn grad, i thought i took good care of my cars till i saw that. please tell me those floor mats arn't original.
bingo! its no secret that %99 of drivers use "d", "r",and "p" and thats it! its all about just being able to say "i have manushift" " i have a 260hp v6.. image once again... it is image, in the same way as saying "i have awd" here in the south where it is pretty useless 99% of the time(especially the type in the ford and other typically front-drive only vehicles like honda honda, etc...). in hilly segments around my county (jefferson county, al for reference), being able to lock in third gear or lower is a very welcome setting in my car. awd would be useless to me. in flat nebraska, d3 would be more useless and awd more useful (more snow), a complete turnaround. these features each have their purpose, but the climate and topography often dictate their usefulness.
they are original. you can't really see the brown "tint" to the grey mats, but they aren't perfect. close, but not perfect at all. the driver mat is also worn down in the usual spot where the heel of my foot rests. that post in itself was a very kind complement, thank you! (i worked my butt off getting them clean!)
http://www.latimes.com/business/la-fi-accord5jun05,0,4558762.story?track=mostviewed-storylevel too expensive for very little extra mpg ok honda is supposed to be working on a dedicated hybrid to compete directly with toyota. all i ask is that it not be ugly, like the toyota. i know beauty is in the eye of the beholder but......
all i ask is that it not be ugly, like the toyota. i know beauty is in the eye of the beholder but...... the toyota is indeed one homely-looking vehicle, almost pontiac ugly, so strange that it is beautiful in its own way (the fabulous mileage makes it "pretty.") every time i see one i know that the owner is laughing while he/she passes a gas station while i, on the other hand, cry.
the name just didn't make sense to me. v6 hybrid. people who want a hybrid are looking for great mileage, not mediocre mileage, at a premium price. honda likes to do things different, but the v6 hybrid was a bad idea. i think an honda diesel will make up for it though, if it's not too expensive that is.
if you take care of the car with some regular interior cleaning (i don't mean weekly or anything), it doesn't get "crusty." after seeing that grad, i don't feel alone in the world anymore. my wife drives coworkers around from time to time and they all comment on how clean i keep our vehicles. one went so far as to ask if we hire a professional cleaner or use a cleaning service! i'd imagine you would get the same reaction. it's not all that hard to do really and the results are very satisfying imo. i'd really hate to see the interiors of her coworkers vehicles. :surprise: :surprise:
when you keep your car clean, and everything working like it's supposed to, it makes all the difference at resale time. i got $1000 over kbb for my 12 year old car, because it still looked great, and everything still worked like it should.
my biggest complaint with all of this has always been seen in the ratios (which i've seen around here but don't know exactly how to link to them) of who buys what. according to what i've seen the vast majority of toyota and honda sold are equipped with an i4 and an atx. the majority, although not quite as vast as that of the camcord's, of ford sold are equipped with a v6 (atx is the only option there). don't know what it is for the hyundai. knowing this i can't see how the size or power numbers of the v6 options in the camcords sell the cars. i understand that their i4s are superior in pretty much every way to those of the ford and hyundai and have no argument as to why people buy them in insane numbers. so why put the ford down for its v6 when in all reality it is selling better than the other v6 options? the odds are in favor of the ford at the stoplight going by the numbers. baggs32, it's not the power of the v6 engines that sell i4 camcords. what you have failed to mention is fuel mileage. the i4 camcords sell so well because they have v6 power (or close to it) and get much better fuel mileage than a ford v6 does. while the v6 ford may win from the stoplight (by a small margin), it will also be the first to pull into the gas station (by a wide margin). of course, this leads the ford v6 owner to say "my v6 ford will leave your i4 camcord in the dust". which invariably leads camcord owners to post camcord v6 performance numbers. not saying it makes sense, just saying that's the way it is. i don't have a problem with anyone buying the car "they" want. we all have our "own" reasons. just don't tell me i wasted thousands of $$ because i bought a camcord. i bought a v6 honda because it's what "i" wanted. telling me i bought the wrong car, is like telling the pope he picked the wrong religion.
just don't tell me i wasted thousands of $$ because i bought a camcord. my issue arises when others assert the competitors offer the same attributes of an honda for thousands less. some come close to the total package, but close is just that. close. these others are priced less cause if priced the same as an honda they're sales numbers would be hammered. i'm confident the 08 honda will only add to its separation from the pack.
when you keep your car clean, and everything working like it's supposed to, it makes all the difference at resale time. i got $1000 over kbb for my 12 year old car, because it still looked great, and everything still worked like it should. yeah i maintain things to a very high level, i would be willing to drive across the country in that car (or anywhere else). i like to keep the inside pretty spotless and keep these little wipes in the car for spills and stuff. i have cheated and had the car detailed a couple of times, but if i am going to spend that much time in that environment, i want it to be clean.
if you take care of the car with some regular interior cleaning (i don't mean weekly or anything), it doesn't get "crusty." after seeing that grad, i don't feel alone in the world anymore. haha, if you think you get funny looks, try being a college student, not even 20 years old, and keeping a car really clean inside. all but my closest friends probably think i'm obsessive compulsive. i'll share a big secret though. i wear flip-flops pretty often (when i'm not going to work), and to drive, i go barefoot (sliding my shoes under the seat). i don't wanna go barefoot on nasty carpet! i have never had my car "detailed," and in 12 years, i can say with confidence that i'm the only one who has ever cleaned that car (my grandmother did nothing to it, i used to clean it up every year or so to make money as a younger kid). this isn't reflected in the pictures, but i more recently used our upright bissel steam carpet cleaner on the floormats. you'd be amazed at the difference that made in how the car looked and even how it smelled (it didn't stink previously, but boy did it smell great after a carpet cleaning!). if you have one of these carpet cleaners, i recommend using it on your floormats if your car is more than a few years old. it'll really cut down on allergens and dirt in your car, even that that you cannot see.
my issue arises when others assert the competitors offer the same attributes of an honda for thousands less. some come close to the total package, but close is just that. close. patronizing statements like this are why some people think camcord owners are elitist. and if the honda was "the total package" why do they have to come out with another package in 08 lol?
i'll restate my version what he said since we don't completely disagree, hopefully in more diplomatic fashion. all of these competitors offer the same general features, at varying prices. the differences come in the presentation of all of it as a whole. how does the interior design feel; upscale or sporty? boring but solid? how does the car drive; is it soft and buttery, sporty and rough, or somewhere in between? how are all the features of the car integrated together; does it come together as a cohesive unit? it is in these ways that the cars start to differentiate themselves, and it is basically personal preference. i found the ford to be too rough riding and the interior dated looking, the hyundai was numb/boring and had ergonomic quirks in the center stack that turned me off, and the toyota was too soft and quiet, and not in the least bit engaging. they were all in the $20k-$24k range, all had between 155 and 166 horsepower, all offered automatics and 16" wheels, and adequate interior space. it is the subtleties that won me over in the honda; it had the right balance of features, a balance that was worth over a thousand dollars in order not to "settle" for something that didn't exactly fit my wants and needs. and if the honda was "the total package" why do they have to come out with another package in 08 lol? for the same reason that all car companies improve their cars; the bar is always being raised. the same reason people are speculating over the ford getting a 3.5l, the reason the nissan got a power bump, and the reason that the chevrolet made a 240 hp engine (chevrolet ss) optional. you've got to keep up with the competition!
haha, if you think you get funny looks, try being a college student, not even 20 years old, and keeping a car really clean inside. i have a 3 year old and a 1 year old. you college students are squeaky clean compared to them! :p
it's not the power of the v6 engines that sell i4 camcords. what you have failed to mention is fuel mileage. the i4 camcords sell so well because they have v6 power (or close to it) and get much better fuel mileage than a ford v6 does. i did say that in a round about way when i stated that the i4s of the toyota and honda are superior to those in the ford and hyundai in nearly every way. the ford seems to fill a gap that no one else covers. v6 power for not much more cash than the other i4 offerings. you do lose some efficiency, but again, it is a compromise. obviously it's not a compromise everyone is willing to make but the ford does sell well so ford got something right somewhere. while the v6 ford may win from the stoplight (by a small margin) i've already shown that the difference is more than most think. the numbers for the i4 honda that have been posted around here, which are pretty close to the ford's v6 numbers, were for one with an mtx. the i4 and atx honda are a good bit slower, close to a second iirc. we just had a discussion about why anyone would want an mtx in a sedan so i'm guessing, and the sales numbers back me up, that stoplight matches between a v6 ford and mtx equipped i4 honda are few and far between too. if the ford were available with an mtx then i'd expect to see mid to high 6 sec 0-60 times because that's what the mazda accomplishes with an mtx and similar motor. compare that to an mtx i4 honda and the difference is around a full second again. so this brings me back to my original statement that the ford v6 is a good compromise if you want v6 power but don't want to pay the premium for the extra power of the honda and toyota. with the ford you can get a v6 for a touch more than the i4 of the others which can be appealing all other attributes aside. in all honesty i'd only consider the nissan and mazda in this category if i were in the market right now. they are the only two that offer an mtx with the v6, the performance i come to expect from such a drivetrain, and are visually appealing to me inside and out. i really don't like the honda's or the toyota's outward appearance right now and the ford, said toyota, and hyundai don't offer an mtx with the v6 putting them all out of the running. plus i did own a mazda v6 previously and loved it making anything less too much of a compromise for me.
just don't tell me i wasted thousands of $$ because i bought a camcord. exactly - because the fact of the matter is that elroy5 very likely didn't. many autobuyers somehow confuse low initial price with 'value'. if an honda costs 4 grand more up front but is still worth that same 4 grand more lets say 4 years later then than that more expensive car wasn't more expensive at all - except for the time value ($250-$350/year) of the extra money borrowed. finance 101 and an easy concept to understand. the facts are that those camcords do have the highest resale values and generally lead the pack in terms of cost of operation. a good indicator of a car's true cost to own is lease rates, i would suspect it may be actually cheaper (or close to the same) to lease an honda compared to a hyundai or ford. but don't tell anybody that wasted anything or paid too much for anything - it is simply not likely the case over those 3 to 5 years that most of us tend to keep a car. and you are right, a ford/hyundai priced (and sold) like an honda will likely never happen - simply because the carbuyer expects those cars to be cheaper and the main reason why those cars will be less valuable at trade-in time. there does seem to be about 3 honda buyers to every 1 ford (or hyundai) buyer that seem to understand all this. so, therefore, this discussion really should be more about the relative merits of each car and less about silly price.
patronizing statements like this are why some people think camcord owners are elitist. huh? patronizing? i stated the honda (not 'camcord' - the honda) was the best in its class. period. even as a 5 year old design vehicle. take it the way you want but many, many people have the same opinion as me. and the 2008 honda will be even better. you can bank on honda for that. they just have to watch their pricing. they can still get their 'premium'. the market will support it.
a good indicator of a car's true cost to own is lease rates, i would suspect it may be actually cheaper (or close to the same) to lease an honda compared to a hyundai or ford. sort of. i do lease vehicles most of the time and have found that the difference is not always there depending on where the vehicle is in it's yearly cycle. you can almost always get a really good lease deal on a vehicle at the beginning of it's my run but certain vehicles, which do tend to have better resale like the honda, still have decent lease rates at the end of the my run.
huh? patronizing? i stated the honda (not 'camcord' - the honda) was the best in its class. period. even as a 5 year old design vehicle. and that is exactly the attitude that zzzoom6 was referring to. almost nobody buys a vehicle today based on objective criteria. even if one vehicle has better mpg or is faster 0-60 or goes through the slalom or skidpad faster or is less expensive than another - most people don't base their purchase decision on those alone. it's a combination of very subjective things like interior/exterior styling, seat toyota, steering feel, power (how it feels as opposed to actual test figures), etc. if a test showed that the honda was slower 0-60, had lower residual values and the worst reliability ratings of all the cars in this class - would that change an honda owner's opinion of their own vehicle? of course not. by the same token you're not going to change anyone's opinion of their own vehicle by spouting test results and magazine ratings. and it has nothing to do with justifying a purchase decision and everything to do with subjective preferences that can't be measured on a test track. why can't we just note the objective differences between these vehicles without making judgements about which is better or worse?
if a test showed that the honda was slower 0-60, had lower residual values and the worst reliability ratings of all the cars in this class - would that change an honda owner's opinion of their own vehicle? of course not. of course it would, and of course it should and the results of these hypothetical statistics of yours might actually have honda dealers floating discounts like never seen before. that requirement that all of us have to make judgements about which is better or worse is largely a function of our egos!
why can't an honda owner/lover state he thinks the honda is best in its class? its not like its an outlandish statement.
why can't an honda owner/lover state he thinks the honda is best in its class? it didn't seem to me that he said he "thought" it was best in class but rather stated it as if it were a fact and therefore everyone should see it that way. the honda has won praise by many but there are still plenty of people, especially toyota owners, who feel otherwise. therefore if in fact the honda is the best in class and everyone should base their "intelligent" decision on that fact then why does the toyota consistently outsell the honda?
depends on whether the leases are subsidized and if the dealer throws in additional cash. for example, i can lease a hyundai gls for $199/month with zero down right now, per local ads. a comparable honda chrysler lease is also $199/month, but with about $2000 down.
"why can't an honda owner/lover state he thinks the honda is best in its class? its not like its an outlandish statement. " we can, and it certainly is not an outlandish statement at all. however, owners/lovers of competing vehicles tend to get offended by such claims, because they feel that their vehicle is best in class for them , and then feel the need to defend their choice. we'll never reach a consensus on this board as to what vehicle truly is the one and only best in this class. all we can do is share our opinions, look at facts, and make our own choices. there are so many different aspects to consider, and everything is constantly changing. yes, my vote is for the honda, but i certainly respect other choices (i've had two 626's before which i felt matched the honda of their day in nearly every way). i view this discussion as a way to learn things about other cars in this class that you can't find out unless you actually own the car yourself, and i've tried to share such information about the cars i own or have owned. please, lets be civil to one another, so we can keep the discussion going.
toyota became the world's largest automaker by 1) producing quality cars and 2) correctly evaluating driver preferences where that car is to be sold. in this country, that means a 'soft isolating ride'. if anything i think folks are more likely to buy something that everybody else doesn't have other factors equal. i don't believe the fact that there are so many cars on the road that are identical to what i may have just bought is necessarily a positive influence on sales.
i view this discussion as a way to learn things about other cars in this class that you can't find out unless you actually own the car yourself, and i've tried to share such information about the cars i own or have owned. please, lets be civil to one another, so we can keep the discussion going. amen to the civility. i've only owned five "foreign" cars: two volkswagen beetles (1958 and 1962), a 1977 mazda glc, a 1990 mazda b2000 pickup and a 2000 mazda miata (mazda) convertible. all were decent vehicles. bender, how many honda have you owned? the ford come in three varieties, the s, se and sel with two engine options, i4 and v6. how many models of the honda? this go round the wife got to pick the car (her first choice was a ford but that was not practical at this time) and we ended up with a v6 2007 sel awd ford. i've heard so many good things about an honda that our next car might be one. so, what do you like most about your honda? we like the styling of our ford a lot and consider it to be the best looking vehicle in the mid-size car segment with the honda being second.
toyota became the world's largest automaker by 1) producing quality cars and 2) correctly evaluating driver preferences where that car is to be sold. in this country, that means a 'soft isolating ride'. if anything i think folks are more likely to buy something that everybody else doesn't have other factors equal. i don't believe the fact that there are so many cars on the road that are identical to what i may have just bought is necessarily a positive influence on sales. two years ago, a toyota official was quoted as saying "the number 1 selling flavor of ice cream in america is vanilla." it made me chuckle a bit, but a very valid point.
grad, i know what you mean to say, but what you are saying is not what the other guy said. you have acknowledged that subjective interpretation of characteristics and features differ for everyone, so i respect your opinion. but saying that the honda is "the total package" as the other person wrote implies that it is the best for everyone and beyond improvement. that's just ignorant. it's all good that others have found cars that meet their idea of perfection or satisfaction and that the cars that they chose are different from mine or others. but to suggest that they know what the ideal is for everyone suggests that everyone must be like them or else they are not as perfect as them. so when i use the word "patronizing" i do not do so easily or without cause. in my view, everyone's opinion is fine, but doing so in a condescending manner isn't.
why can't an honda owner/lover state he thinks the honda is best in its class? why can't an honda owner/lover simply say that they love their honda for reason x, y and z and leave it at that? best in class is meaningless. best at what? what class? it doesn't yield any beneficial information and only starts arguments.
if a test showed that the honda was slower 0-60, had lower residual values and the worst reliability ratings of all the cars in this class - would that change an honda owner's opinion of their own vehicle? of course not. of course it would, and of course it should why? if i bought a vehicle and was happy with it why would i care about the other vehicles or where it ranked in testing? it might make me look at other vehicles when it came time to replace it but there is absolutely no reason that an owner's opinion of their vehicle should be changed simply because of some test results or magazine rankings. if it does then that says the owner cares only about what other people think of them based on the car that he/she drives. maybe that explains why some of the honda owners are so defensive when anyone dares to question the honda's "best in class" status.
if many of us were more generous with using "in my opinion" when making statements about what is "best" and it would be even more helpful if many of us would add "for me" to those kinds of statements. i know that a lot of people believe that since we are here to discuss opinions in the first place that those kinds of qualifiers are implied and need not be spelled out. i am suggesting that those of you who would like to keep this conversation civil and continuing can help those causes by using those phrases anyway. isn't it worth a try? akirby is right in pointing out that people are never going to agree on what is "best" across the board. it really isn't useful to keep trying to get others to change their opinions . are you willing to change your opinion based on people saying the same things over and over again here? no? well neither is the other guy!
if i bought a vehicle and was happy with it why would i care about the other vehicles or where it ranked in testing by testing i'm assuming you are really talking about more statistically related things like residual values or reliability numbers and not necessarily a few tenths or a second here or there in an acceleration test. the answer to 'why' is that if those honda were really a reliability nightmares, those precious residual values suffered and that car started selling for a lot less money than what you paid for it, then it is hitting you right in the pocketbook. buying a new car is an especially risky undertaking in these days of outrageous rebates and discounts simply because most folks are 'upside down' on their car notes as soon as they drive it off the lot. so sure, if that hypothetical bad model year honda of yours effects me in the same way and i am losing even more money on it every day i keep it, my opinion of that car should change, even if that car is everything that i dreamed it would be. if it weren't for those 'badge' buyers there would be no market for a whole lot of cars that aren't even in this group and as far as getting defensive about buying an honda, they don't need to - those same sales, reliability, and residual value statistics provide all the justification needed - it is best in class. whether you or i agree, objectively or subjectively, is not the point.
i don't believe the fact that there are so many cars on the road that are identical to what i may have just bought is necessarily a positive influence on sales. sure it is. family members, neighbors, co-workers, etc. all hand out advice about everything to each other and vehicles are no exception. word of mouth has been a big factor in toyota and honda sales imo. we all like to say that those two sell well based on the reputation that they've earned. well how do you think word of that reputation gets spread?
i know that a lot of people believe that since we are here to discuss opinions in the first place that those kinds of qualifiers are implied and need not be spelled out. i have to say pat, i've never seen it that way. we do post a lot of factual evidence so i've always seen it necessary to point out when something was my opinion or someone else's opinion. some people do come here for advice on what vehicle is best for them (and then read a post or two and run away fast!! :p) so it is worthwhile to state a fact as a fact or an opinion as an opinion imo.
i've mostly owned foreign mid sized sedans. my first car, in 1996, was a 1991 mazda 626 dx (stick shift, crank windows, manual locks, cassette deck...) which i got with 100,000 miles. this lasted 40,000 trouble-free miles, until i wrapped it around some trees. i walked away but the car was almost unrecognizable. my second car was a 1990 honda honda ex automatic, which was a fun car, except i ended up wishing for a stick shift. i got that in 1999 with 100k, and for the next 40,000 miles it was the least reliable car i have yet owned. (the first owners hadn't had any trouble in 100k miles, and i later tracked down it's third owner, who drove it until 240,000 miles with minimal problems so i must have fixed everything that needed fixing). no major replacements like engine or transmission, but lots of minor to moderate repairs, and it left me stranded a few times. my third car was a 1998 mazda 626 es-v6 5-speed, purchased in 2001 with 50k. this car was a champ; as reliable as the first 626, but with more power and luxury. i miss this car. i sold it with 100k on the clock, because i was working in sales at a ford dealership at the time, and being around all of those new cars, i wanted my first brand new one. i sold the 626 with 100,000 miles in 2003 for $5,700. i later contacted the guy who bought it and he said he's had no problems, spinning like a top. sellers remorse... the 4th car, my first brand new one, was a 2004 ford ford. this was a tremendous value when new, and a shining example of engineering and vehicle design, however it was constantly plagued by minor issues since day one and i didn't trust it beyond 50k miles (the transmission had been acting up since new, and the rear end had started making noise, both symptoms of major trouble coming down the road). never did leave me stranded, but was in the shop i think... 9 times? and still, it wasn't 100% right. and now, the new honda. i bought it because the driving experience was almost exactly like that of the 1998 626. i wanted a mazda, but i saw that cr didn't rate the reliability any better than the ford ("average") and i remembered back when i used to take the 1998 626 to the mazda dealer how the advisor would tell me that my 2.5 v6 and manual transmission was "bulletproof" compared to the other combinations offered and compared to the mazda. i was afraid a new mazda wouldn't be able to live up to the experience i had with the old 626's. so i thought i'd give honda another shot. we'll see how it goes! i know ford is similiar and is rated as more reliable than mazda (for some reason). i drove both the se 5-speed manual and the sel v6, but i just liked the honda better. the 4-cylinder ford felt sluggish, and the manual transmission felt like an afterthought. the v6 didn't feel any faster than the honda 4-cyl 5-speed, and was rated as having lower fe. plus, i knew i wanted a stick shift. mainly, the honda reminded me more of the old 626, than the ford did.
my first car, in 1996, was a 1991 mazda 626 dx (stick shift, crank windows, manual locks, cassette deck...) which i got with 100,000 miles. this lasted 40,000 trouble-free miles, until i wrapped it around some trees. i walked away but the car was almost unrecognizable. shouldn't you have named yourself "benderoftrees"? :shades:
if you care about these things the 2007 initial quality ratings were just released. the midsize sedan category was an eye opener.
if i had a manumatic, i likely wouldn't use it unless i wanted to hold a gear for climbing/braking in hilly areas. it wouldn't be something i used in daily commuting. it would just be a more convenient version of what i already have (d, d3, 2, 1). i have that feature in my mazda and that is essentially how i view it. i also think it is better looking version of the alternative, which would have 4-3-2-1 in line after d. there are also two other potential purposes that i see, one is to manually downshift early when you are planning to pass on a 2 lane road. the other is it allows you to start in 2 in the snow, which is somethng some people like to do...i've never bothered with doing that myself. i mostly drove manuals in my 30 years of driving, so i sure did not buy an automatic with a manual mode to pretend that i still have one. this feature is nice to have, but would certainly not be a deal-breaker for me.
so i thought i'd give honda another shot. we'll see how it goes! is it a 2007? i'm surprised that you gave honda a second chance. the 1990 honda ex must not have been too awfully bad after all. what model did you get? what was the msrp? our 2007 sel awd ford had a msrp of $27,105. we considered the honda and toyota to be out of our price range even though we didn't talk turkey with the honda/toyota dealer (one in the same).
a perfect example of posting information without passing judgement or making any declarations of superiority.
definitely an eye-opener. impressive scores for ford and fomoco products.
as far as getting defensive about buying an honda, they don't need to - those same sales, reliability, and residual value statistics provide all the justification needed - it is best in class. whether you or i agree, objectively or subjectively, is not the point. in my opinion i agree with you. those that don't agree with us can just ignore it, like the vast majority of posters here are doing. i'm not disparaging others' choice of car. the honda isn't some kind of anomoly or quirk. its a fantastic car even tho its a 5 year old design! how many other 5 year old design cars can say the same? the 2008 model will surely be a hit - in my opinion. the competition has laid out their wares. honda will undoubtedly take all these into account for their next offering. i can't wait to check one out.
"i'm surprised that you gave honda a second chance. the 1990 honda ex must not have been too awfully bad after all." well, remember it went from new to 100,000 miles over 9 years with its original owners with no problems. and then, as i found out later, after i sold it with 140,000 miles the third owner put at around 80,000 or more miles with "minimal problems." lets see, i'd have to pull the records, but off the top of my head... besides wear items and maintenance... intake manifold clogged (they had to drill holes), igniter failed (all electronics went dead including instruments as i was driving), starter solenoid problems, various electronic accessories failed. so no, not too awfully bad, no "major" repairs but it was the least reliable car i've had (except for the ford, which is another story all together, but at least most of that mess was under warranty so it doesn't seem so bad. i just had to endure lots of ford ford loaner cars). i did get a 2007 honda chrysler 5-speed, msrp $20,200? i paid about $17,800 (or $300 under invoice). a completely different animal than your ford, which sounds like a very nice car.
here's a thought on why it's important for some people to feel as if their car is "best in class": if someone pays a significant premium for a car, they probably expect it should be "better" than other cars that cost less. the "more better" their car is, the more value the price premium they paid has. otoh, if someone buys a car that meets their needs, at a relatively low price, the fact that their car isn't "best in class" is immaterial. they got the car they wanted, at a good price, so that is what's important. it may also be related to how some people like to buy cars from brands that have more prestige among the general public. that extra prestige has value to them and helps them feel better about owning their car. the more prestige, the better. and "best in class" adds to the prestige of the car. then there are those who don't care what the brand is, or even care if they are driving a 20-year-old rustbucket, as long as it gets them where they need to go. different strokes for different folks. that's why brands like mercedes, bmw, lexus etc. exist and do well.
so what would you do if you bought a 08 honda this fall and then next fall the new for 09 ford beats the 08 honda in every magazine comparison and in all the relevant objective tests (0-60, reliability, skidpad, slalom, braking, etc.)? would you rush out and buy a 09 ford? somehow i don't think so. nor should you unless you're unhappy with the honda for some reason.
i did get a 2007 honda chrysler 5-speed, msrp $20,200? i paid about $17,800 (or $300 under invoice). sounds like you got a decent deal. i didn't realize honda started around $20,000. we should have shopped around some more, obviously. i realize the ford was the best-selling car in america for several years running but they never did much for me. of course the best-selling title now belongs to the toyota and they don't excite me either. obviously my wife and i dance to the tune of a different drummer when it comes to the automotive world. having many choices is a good thing, methinks. when it comes to popularity, i suspect toyota and honda will continue to lead the pack for quite some time. that's not a bad thing. it makes the "other guys" try harder, produce a better product. competition is good. ford let the ford die on the vine, in my humble opinion.
personally, the favorite in the clubhouse is likely the 08 nissan 3.5 but given that highly unlikely honda/ford scenario you present - the 'new' engine for the ford is supposed to be another 3.0dt this time at a relatively paltry 240hp and may not make it until 2010 or even 2011, the new honda v6 which likely will make it under the hood of the 08 should easily be somewhere in the 260-270hp range and be available not only on time but also offer a diesel alternative (less hp more torque and really great fe). the direct answer to your question, is no i probably don't rush out and buy that ford even if becomes (from a dynamic perspective) what you think it could, because that imaginary ford at least right now has neither the track record of long term reliability nor the history of high residuals that the honda has maintained for 20 years or so. do i go out and give it a hard look - sure, but those cars that have statistically proven to be 'better' in those reliability/residual value-cost to own studies will always top my list and after that it generally comes down to power and refinement under the hood, which generally is my true top priority.
that was a hypothetical situation. i should just said car a and car b. it had nothing to do with the actual cars. i was just trying to understand your motivation relative to ratings and rankings. even talking about cars that don't yet exist you have to trumpet the mighty honda and denigrate the lowly ford. that's the type of bias that some of us would like to avoid here.
well... i see your point, but it's clear that several of us, and it's not just the toyota/honda fans, give weight to a make/model based on its history. keeping in mind that we all are entitled to define our own set of priorities, i really don't think there's fault to be found in that in and of itself.
grad, i know what you mean to say, but what you are saying is not what the other guy said. you have acknowledged that subjective interpretation of characteristics and features differ for everyone, so i respect your opinion. but saying that the honda is "the total package" as the other person wrote implies that it is the best for everyone and beyond improvement. that's just ignorant. it's all good that others have found cars that meet their idea of perfection or satisfaction and that the cars that they chose are different from mine or others. but to suggest that they know what the ideal is for everyone suggests that everyone must be like them or else they are not as perfect as them. so when i use the word "patronizing" i do not do so easily or without cause. in my view, everyone's opinion is fine, but doing so in a condescending manner isn't. after reading the continuing posts, i certainly understand what you are saying. i should have prefaced my post stating my intention of saying the honda was best for me . every honda owner doesn't feel the same way, is basically my point. every car in this forum has points that would sway some buyers (certain options at a price point, powertrains, styling, etc...). choosing the best is merely picking which virtues are most important to you, then choosing the vehicle you feel best delivers those virtues. just remember, one doesn't speak for everyone , and everyone's comments (mine included) should always be taken with a grain of salt.
even talking about cars that don't yet exist you have to trumpet the mighty honda and denigrate the lowly ford. i recognize the point you are trying to make, allen, and the sentence is taken out of context, but doesn't the phrase "lowly ford" just add fuel to the fire? i believe our "lowly ford" stacks up very well with the mid-size sedan competition. indeed, when it comes to styling and handling, the ford gets extremely high marks in my book. let's face it, when it comes to cars, most owners are proud of their decision and eager to defend it. since there are hundreds of thousands of toyota and honda owners, the ford lovers are always going to be outnumbered and out voted in a popularity contest. at some point in the future that might not be the case (it wasn't always so) but for now it is.
good post, thanks.
not denigrating anything - just a simple statement of what ford has already announced for the ford, if one chooses to believe it. ford does have a history of 'too little too late' as far as cars go, and is not in a dissimilar position in the car market imo than hyundai/kia, gm, chrysler etc. and i didn't bring up anything about cars that don't exist yet - that would have been your 'hypothetical' - wasn't it?. you ask me whether i would even consider a 'hypothetical' new and improved ford over a new and improved honda, i answered the question honestly and even told you why. and this is some sort of 'bias' on my part? or is it simply what you didn't want to hear? been on this forum long enough you should have known the answer to your question before you asked it - don't you think? besides which, we need to get off this thread - pronto!
the point i was trying to make, but obviously didn't, was that you seemed to base your vehicle preferences on whether a car was highly rated by others (magazines, surveys, etc.) as opposed to whether the vehicle met your requirements or not. i was curious how you would feel if your vehicle that you love today was suddenly not "best in class" anymore (according to the media). would it make you want to get a new car or not? just testing a theory, not trying to start an argument.
here's a thought on why it's important for some people to feel as if their car is "best in class": if someone pays a significant premium for a car, they probably expect it should be "better" than other cars that cost less. it's not that people want to think their car is the best in its class, they already think its the best car in its class. thats why they bought it. and then when they come here, or somewhere else, and see other people saying "no, my car is the best", they of course get defensive. people take a lot of pride in their cars (could never tell from here though :p ) and don't like to be told (essentialy) that they goofed and bought an inferior product.
it's not that people want to think their car is the best in its class, they already think its the best car in its class. not necessarily true. for instance, i think the acura tl is a better car than my honda, but for my own reasons, i didn't buy the tl. no they are not in the same class, but the same thing could happen within the same class. someone could be shopping within this class, and say i know there are better cars in this class, but i will buy a chrysler chrysler, because it's the car i like, and will cost much less than the class leader. some people know they are not driving the "class leader" and are ok with that.
let me throw down the gauntlet and assert the latest jd power toyota survey that just came out is again, imo, a bunch of useless mish mash - even tho my perennial favorites ranked high on that list. but other makes that didn't rank that good i highly regard (bmw, audi, cadillac, mazda). there seems to be no rhyme or reason to the "list". with a few mulligans, you could probably invert the list and have it make as much sense.
i keep my cars for at least 7 years. some time ago, someone posted that hyundai's value would "kill" you if the car were totaled when it was only a couple of years old. that's not what kbb.com says about my hyundai at 14-15k miles. retail $14,590, private party "good condition" $11,460 & trade-in "good condition" $9310. and that's for the gls, not the gls "special value" which is essentially an chrysler except for leather and power driver seat. i paid $16,705 including doc fee, before ttl. (the doc fee was listed as a ridiculous $479, but it was built into the price so i didn't care.) under ct law, an insurance company must pay the average of nada retail ($12,700) and one of a few other "recognized" sources when a car is "totaled" in a collision or "other than collision" loss. so, if my car had been totaled yesterday i would received an insurance payment of $13,630 (less any deductible, unless someone else was at fault in an accident). that doesn't seem like a big depreciation hit to me for two years, only 19%. i think, and thought at the time, that hyundai's improvements would show up in it's used car value within a couple years. seems that that is happening. we'll see what happens in the next couple of years.
jd power toyota is just a way to give awards to cars that would otherwise not win any. any car can have a problem or two. what's more important is whether or not the problem is fixed, or becomes something you just have to live with, as long as you own the car. long term reliability is what i want, since i want to drive it for a long term (10 years or more). obviously the more extra features or gadgets a car has, the more potential problems it could have. how many problems will the car have, after the warranty runs out? do a survey on that, jd.
what year is your hyundai, again? thanks!
maybe that is the problem... so many people think their car is the "best" in its class. well, maybe it is... for them, for their needs. that's why i bought an hyundai in the fall of 2000. it was not the "best in class" in the opinion of most people (although i think edmunds.com made it one of their "most wanted" cars a bit later), but it was the best fit for my needs at the time. i actually liked it better than any other car in its class, and the fact that it was one of the least expensive cars in its class was a bonus. currently, one of the cars i'm eyeing closely for my next new car is the kia. i don't think it's ranked "best in class" by any professional reviewers. but then, they aren't putting up the money for my next car.
useless? i think that's pretty strong. i see some value in the study, if only to show what general direction automakers are heading on quality. for example, i find it very interesting that after many years of bottom-feeding in this study, brands like porsche and now mercedes and kia are making huge strides in initial quality. i also find it interesting that some brands, like lexus and honda, have found a way to maintain their positions in initial quality, while brands like toyota and hyundai are backsliding a bit. and ford is making impressive gains, as noted. the other interesting trend i see is a general increase overall in initial quality over the years. that is a positive trend for all of us.
agreed. most makers are getting better and better which is great news for us consumers!! even land rover, which had the largest improvement - highest decrease in number of problems from last year, though it still finished in last place :p hyundai did too well last year by finishing in third kia's was impressive - went from 24 to 12 porsche continues to retain the top spot!!
jd power toyota is just a way to give awards to cars that would otherwise not win any. why? just because ford came out on top? how many problems will the car have, after the warranty runs out? do a survey on that, jd. they do. http://www.jdpower.com/corporate/news/releases/pressrelease.aspx?id=2006133 and mercury is number two. i guess that makes it a flawed survey, too.
"take it the way you want but many, many people have the same opinion as me. and the 2008 honda will be even better. you can bank on honda for that. they just have to watch their pricing. they can still get their 'premium'. the market will support it." oh i don't know. i bought a 2006 honda which was totally redesigned that year and it has not been "even better". i have had quite a few un-honda like issues so apparently you cannot automatically "bank" on honda for that.
2005. that was the only year of the "special value" sub-trim.
useless? i think that's pretty strong. ok. i'll modify 'useless' to insignificant. i mean c'mon. if it wasn't for landrover, mazda would be dead last.
i mean c'mon. if it wasn't for landrover, mazda would be dead last. not according to this article.
disclaimer: the following post encompasses issues of quality and reliability rankings as related to midsize sedans only. (this is on-topic, i swear!) i don't give as much weight to jd power as i do to consumer reports, because they report "problems per 100 vehicles." while this is useful data, i don't think enough weight is given to the severity of a particular problem. for instance, if midsize sedan "a" has 10 radio knobs fall off per 100 vehicles, and midsize sedan "b" has 5 transmissions fall out per 100 vehicles, sedan "b" appears to be of higher quality because it had less problems per 100 vehicles, even though the problems it did have were much more severe. consumer reports breaks the problems down further, so you can see the reliablilty rating for each car by categories such as engine, transmission, body, accesories, etc. i also don't place too much weight on "initital quality" surveys. they are a good indication that the vehicle will be reliable in the long run but that is not always the case. vehicles which score well in initial quality can start to display major problems as they age, while vehicles that did not score well in initial quality can maintain reliability over the long term. actual long-term reliability studies are much more valuable in my opinion.
i didn't realize honda started around $20,000. we should have shopped around some more, obviously. honda vp would be even less than that chrysler. but, his car is not at all comparable to your version of the ford. a comparably equipped, 4 cyl manual transmission ford, would cost less than the honda and much less than your ford. since i have recently bought one, i know more about pricing of mazda than the ford. a dealer near me had recently advertised mazda sve, with manual for $14k. that is better equipped than the honda chrysler, more comparable to the honda se (which is priced $700 above chrysler). i paid $16k for that car with automatic (which adds at least $800). so this is evidence of a $2500-4500 premium for an honda over the 6. i don't know if ford is giving as good of deals on the ford as mazda is on the 6.
don't give as much weight to jd power as i do to consumer reports, because they report "problems per 100 vehicles. consumer reports breaks the problems down further, so you can see the reliablilty rating for each car by categories such as engine, transmission, body, accesories, etc. i personally (that means this is an opinion) feel the complete opposite as consumer reports uses self reported data from a subset of the population. if i was living in a vacuum and had no other source of information for a purchase decision, i would go with cr (they were great when picking appliances), put i *personally* don't have a lot of faith in their automotive reliability rankings.
i really don't care much about these iqs numbers, either. however, cr has it's own problems, as well. relying on self-reporting and evaluation of "significant problems" that may have occured as much as 12 months ago is just one. i actually give the most weight to the expected costs. this can be determined by pricing identical extended warranties from a single vendor for each model. edmunds also bases their predicted repair costs on this. the differences between models of mid-size sedans are usually quite small.
um, that was last year. the latest report, which came out yesterday, shows mazda in a lower position relative to other brands. hard for someone who likes mazda (which includes me) to see, but consider mazda has released several new models in the past year. that may account at least partially for the relatively poor result for 2007. same for hyundai... with all the new models they have released in the past year, it is more difficult to maintain their high rating from the recent past.
a honda with "issues?" that even sounds odd. would you care to elaborate? nothing major, i trust. all cars, imho, have some issues, a squeak here, a rattle there, a bulb that burns out too soon. that sort of thing. oh i don't know. i bought a 2006 honda which was totally redesigned that year and it has not been "even better". i have had quite a few un-honda like issues so apparently you cannot automatically "bank" on honda for that.
that 3 year study is potentially more useful to an extent, but think about what the numbers actually show. my wife's "un-dependable" volkswagen would have 3 expected problems, while the super-duper dependable mercury will have 1.5. i don't know about anybody else, but a difference of 1.5 "problems" during the warranty period is not going to sway me one way or the other. so what this confirms (for me) is that "reliability" is, for the most part, a non-issue in choosing a mid-size sedan. the typical range in expected repair costs of maybe $500 over 100,000 miles is also not going to influence my choice of midsize sedans.
we're coming pretty close to on-topic, but if we could take the more general comments about how vehicles are rated to the dedicated consumer reports/jd powers rankings discussion, it would be much appreciated.
and that's the point i was about to make. even the worst vehicle today is so much more reliable than the best car 10 years ago. reliability really isn't the big issue it used to be except for maybe a few outlying vehicles.
those cars that have statistically proven to be 'better' in those reliability/residual value-cost to own studies will always top my list and after that it generally comes down to power and refinement under the hood, which generally is my true top priority. this from my post 1724, and i thought it answered your priority question pretty directly. more to the point is that, i probably don't buy the honda or the toyota and lean towards the nissan (with that great v6 naturally). a car that does a relatively decent job holding its value (but not up to camcord standards) and is admittedly short of camcord type fit and finish - the redesigned 07 is a big improvement. given that i believe that overall it falls short of honda/toyota then why is an nissan on the top of list? it's simple - experience - have put something in the neighborhood of 6-700k miles on my last 4 of them and not a one of them has ever had any problems, and that 3.5 v6 is outstanding. i did find the cvt disconcerting on the new nissan, but my wife loved it - it does make driving even less involving then even the 4 spd automatic in my current 3.5, so much so that i think that anybody that would even consider a stick will have no part of it.
>> jeffyscott says: 'reliability is, for the most part, a non-issue in choosing a mid-size sedan.' remind your family of that when your volkswagen :lemon: leaves you stranded on the highway... "hey kids, sorry about your frostbite...but it's only a few more problems than a more reliable sedan would have had." even if the problems are minor, just be glad you have time to waste with the pompous volkswagen dealership, and enjoy the rot-gut max-swill-house coffee.
even the worst vehicle today is so much more reliable than the best car 10 years ago. reliability really isn't the big issue it used to be except for maybe a few outlying vehicles. agreed - if i keep up with routine maintainence, i expect at least 100k troublefree miles out of any vehicle i would buy although i will stay away from those cars that are seemingly overinfected with electronic doodads. bmw/mbs problems, imo, have very little to do with anything other than overinfestation of technology, from an objective perspective - they both build great cars otherwise.
i'd be glad to even though a honda doesn't qualify for this discussion not exactly being mid sized. i bought the car new in nov 2005 with about 9 miles or so showing. on the drive home from the dealer i noticed a faint noise from the right rear suspension on some types of bumps. i blew it off because this was a honda after all (our first). my wife took over regularly driving the car to work and i only fueled, washed, and maintained it driving it short distances for those jobs. while i did start to notice an increase in the severity of the noise by july 2006 even my wife who wouldn't notice if she was dragging the transmission for 1/2 mile (an overstatement to be sure)said "there is a noise in the car. i already knew a problem existed and researched for any honda tsb's but didn't find one for this. i finally took it back to the selling dealer in late july where an inspection found not only was the right rear shock bone dry (all fluid leaked out) which is what i suspected but additionally the left side shock was leaking badly. both were replaced under warranty but i had to take off a 1/2 day from work,wait around etc. that cleared up one noise but made things quiet enough i could hear another which was a "drone" from the engine at around 1500 rpm in high gear. honda issued a tsb for this one much later and i got the fix which worked. now, yet another noise, this one in the right front while hitting certain types of bumps has been identified as a faulty motor mount by honda. this one is pending because i have not had the time to take it in for repair. additionally, the interior plastic is very prone to scratches especially, as design would have it, near the armrests/door pulls where one is sure to blindly grasp to shut the door resulting in many scratches/scrapes there. but interior wise the worst problem by far is the fact the cloth upholstry material is wearing on the driver seat cushion bolster. the woven? in pattern has all but disappeared on a 3 x 2 inch or so patch where our butts slide on entering and leaving the car. currently the car has around 8,700 miles and i feel while it has not had all the problems 2006 civics can have there have been enough relatively minor problems to send me packing back to hyundai. scroll through the service bulletins for this year/model where at last count over a dozen exist and some are pretty "bad" e.g. about 7 ea. oil sealing bolts scattered around the engine that don't seal resulting in partial engine teardown for replacement. power steering leaks, engine immobilizer problems resulting in no-start conditions etc. nope whomever said reputation doesn't sell cars is wrong...it sold me a honda. my first inclination was a 2006 hyundai but that is another story.
"why can't an honda owner/lover state he thinks the honda is best in its class? its not like its an outlandish statement." then why can't a ford/hyundai/mazda owner state they think thier sedan is the best in its class?? this is not an "outlandish" statement either.. :sick:
"their "intelligent" decision on that fact then why does the toyota consistently outsell the honda" same way i guess mcdonalds sells more burgers than burger king i guess..
more precisely... * what is the sales per dealer ? (per-store sales is an important metric in the sales business. toyota has more dealers than honda.) * how many are sold to fleets? (many more toyota are sold to fleets than honda.)
lean towards the nissan i thought i'd test drive the 07 nissan this weekend. i've only sat in it and played with the controls a bit, but i agree - what a nice ride. i like it much more than the nissan - what's up with that funky nissan grill btw? i think the high end nissan cannibalizes the nissan sales.
lets try this one again.. http://www.jdpower.com/press-releases/pressrelease.aspx?id=2007088 no comments? looks like ford is doing pretty darn well.. i'm going to have to keep this link around and spread the word. :shades:
i think the average age of the toyota is higher than the honda's. the honda is also a more athletic ride which probably appeals to a younger driver. both have the advantage of buyers walking on the lot, look at some colors, and saying "i'll take that one" more than most other makes.
read many of the previous posts. you're late to the iqs party around here.
an interesting post, target. thanks for the info. i guess it illustrates that even honda can have problems. it's always been my contention that any make or model can have problems regardless of surveys or testings or ratings. we also considered the hyundai hyundai but one dealer in our town owns the franchises for hyundai, mazda, honda and nissan while sherwood ford, lincoln, mercury has a sterling reputation and has been excellent to deal with. we own a 1997 thunderbird and a 2000 ford station wagon in addition to the 2007 ford. eventually, all cars end up going back to the dealer for something, even if it is just oil changes or tire rotations. the dealer's excellent reputation was a big factor in our purchase of a ford. the bold, distinctive styling also played a large part. we've only had the car six months and 3,420 miles but, so far (knock on wood) it's yet to have a single squeak, rattle or thump. there has been zero recalls and not a single technical service bulletin (tsb) has applied to our car. we sure hope this trend continues for the years to come.
any car can have problems. you take your chances. see this post as an example of the irony of it all. bdkinnh, "bmw bmw sedans" #11855, 6 jun 2007 10:08 am
i believe it is currently possible to get a nissan cheaper than a well optioned v6 nissan where the stickers can get above $30k pretty easily. talk about 'cannibalization'! while i pretty much stay away from subjective styling issues - to me, it is one 'pretty' car.
what do you think about the new nissan nissan 2007? it has the same interior volume as the 2007 honda (within 1 cubic ft). i has a better price, better fuel economy, great ride, less prestige and unknown reliability and probably lower resale value. safety wise it's got 6 airbags, abs, ebd, etc, etc, even tire pressure monitors.
safety wise it's got 6 airbags, abs, ebd, etc, etc, even tire pressure monitors yeah but they are all optional (at least abs/ebd) and tpm is going to be standard for everyone in the next 2 years as a federal mandate, iirc.
here in canada you can't get one without abs and ebd.
any car can have problems kd - of course, and likely in direct correlation to the the complexities of the car in the first place. bmw problem is not that they don't build the best cars in the world, it is more related to the systems they build into those cars, required to make them that way. murphy's law - the more complicated anything is, the more likely it is to break - a toyota toyota should never be as reliable as a toyota, a lincoln lincoln should never be as reliable as a ford etc etc.. there are exceptions to all 'rules', of course - but as a generality, something that is true in a whole lot more things than just cars?
"why can't an honda owner/lover state he thinks the honda is best in its class? its not like its an outlandish statement." then why can't a ford/hyundai/mazda owner state they think thier sedan is the best in its class?? this is not an "outlandish" statement either.. uhh, they can last i checked . we each buy our own "best-in-class."
let's say that the "acme auto company" produces a competent mid-size sedan with a 225 hp engine. hypothetically, acme has new technology which will allow it to produce a more efficient engine. they can either re-engineer the engine to produce 50 more horsepower with the present gas mileage or keep the 225 horsepower and increase average mileage by 5 mpg. which alternative would interest you more as a potential acme-brand buyer?
to me? the mileage. i drive a 166 hp car and a 130 hp car. 225 would be excess to me, much less 275!
the nissan is quite roomy, but it is 6 cuft less than an honda. honda reports different numbers for sunroof models and that lowers it closer to the nissan.
no question the mileage. 225 is way more than enough. anything more is really just about bragging rights, not driveability.
personally i would not buy a nissan based on its looks alone. i think the nissan is a much better value (and also has mid-sized interior room, albeit barely), and there are other compacts-with-midsized-interiors and even bona fide midsized (even full-sized) cars that would cost less than a nissan, including mazda, kia, hyundai and sometimes (depending on incentives) ford and mercury. so, no thanks on the nissan.
let's say that the "acme auto company" produces a competent mid-size sedan with a 225 hp engine. hypothetically, acme has new technology which will allow it to produce a more efficient engine. they can either re-engineer the engine to produce 50 more horsepower with the present gas mileage or keep the 225 horsepower and increase average mileage by 5 mpg. which alternative would interest you more as a potential acme-brand buyer? this did actually come into play in my case. my old car (same make and model) was smaller and lighter, and a 4cyl was the only option. 140hp was adequate most of the time (could have used more power on the highway). 12 years later the car had grown considerably and a v6 was available. the fact that i could get 100 more hp, and still get the same mileage as the old car, made it a no-brainer for my driving style. i picked the extra power, thegrad picked the mileage. we both got what we wanted, so it's all good.
this did actually come into play in my case. my old car (same make and model) was smaller and lighter, and a 4cyl was the only option. 140hp was adequate most of the time (could have used more power on the highway). 12 years later the car had grown considerably and a v6 was available. the fact that i could get 100 more hp, and still get the same mileage as the old car, made it a no-brainer for my driving style. i picked the extra power, thegrad picked the mileage. we both got what we wanted, so it's all good. bingo. we each picked what suited us. the only time i ever need more power in my 130 hp '96 honda is passing above 60 mph. around town, it is perfectly adequate. in my 166 hp '06, i've never "needed" more. it's so quiet relative to my 96, i don't mind winding it up to 5,500 rpm if i really feel compelled to take off. i got better power and better mileage! (although 70-80 horsepower less than elroy). my highway mileage is 8 mpg better in my new car thanks to ivtec and a 5-speed auto!
bingo. we each picked what suited us. and thats what it all boils down to. anybody who wants to proclaim any car the best nees to keep in mind, they are in a pretty small group. even the best selling midsize sedan (the toyota) only has about 15% of the midsize market. so, for every 100 people who buy a midsize sedan, 85% don't think the toyota is the best.
15% thought the toyota was the best value, and actually bought one. some people think the toyota is the class leader, but aren't willing to pay it's price (so they buy something else). don't you think, if all midsize cars were the same price, the toyota would get a higher percentage of buyers? i would still not buy a toyota, but i think many people would. i think the honda would also get a higher percentage, if you could get one for the same price as say, a chevrolet.
but, part of the "class-leader" part comes from its price. if not, it wouldn't be limited to the class (a.k.a. acura tl, lexus es350, etc...) price has to be included in my opinion, if not, we blur the "class" issue.
got to ride in the mercury that was modified. i know some here debate as to whether this guy knows what he is doing. the car is definitely faster than a factory mercury v6. the power is immediate, the engine grabs and seems to spin up quicker i asked him if he ever dyno'd the car and he plans on it. once again, its a mercury v6 premier with all the options. he added full dual exhaust, intake air system, chipped it, some lighter performance wheels/tires. the car was not a rip roaring v8. i have test driven a toyota v6, i believe this car would give the toyota a good run for its money.. is it all worth it? i don't know?? he does this for fun and as a hobby.
when price comes into the equation, we are talking about "best value", not "class leader". two totally different things. "class leader" means the highest selling car, and the car regarded as the best car in it's particular class, irrespective of price. if the nissan comes out with a new special edition that is more expensive than the highest priced toyota, does that mean it's the new class leader? not by my definition, because it's not out selling the toyota. sure, the "class leader" will usually fetch a higher price, but that's not why it's a class leader.
well, i've heard it somewhere before, but getting into "best-in-class" can mean a lot of things. i mean, the guy who had a 4.0 gpa looks like the best in class, while in fact, the guy with a 3.5 gpa and lots of extra-curriculars and out-of-class work experience gets the job done better. (showing my age here!) i say that in a roundabout way to say, it may be instinctive to say the car with the best numbers is tops, while in fact, when it comes to getting the job done, others do it better, having fun along the way (just like in school!). i think (again "i") that best-in-class is still individual.
power. hands down. most automakers have done this for years. bigger, revised versions of engines with more power and the same (or improved) fuel economy.
when price comes into the equation, we are talking about "best value", not "class leader". two totally different things. "class leader" means the highest selling car, and the car regarded as the best car in it's particular class, irrespective of price. you say it is the "highest selling car" and "regarded as the best". the highest selling car can be easily defined, but is not always going to be "regarded as best". if it is not, then which is the "class leader"? if price does not matter, then maybe we need to consider whether midsize sedans like the audi s6 ($72,000) or bmw bmw ($83,000) out-class cars like the toyota and honda.
if price does not matter, then maybe we need to consider whether midsize sedans like the audi s6 ($72,000) or bmw bmw ($83,000) out-class cars like the toyota and honda. that depends on other limitations of the class specifications. if you include those cars above then you are including mid-sized luxury sedans which can be, and often are, considered to be in another class themselves. those lines can be pretty blurred though. often when mags do comparos they make up classes that we don't often realize are even there. things like v6 powered awd mid-sized sedans under $30k. that's a small group, but it can be a "class". i see your point and also see how this line of discussion could end up in an endless loop! :surprise:
is it all worth it? i don't know?? he does this for fun and as a hobby. oh its definitely not worth it, but man, its fun. i'm glad he is happy with his mods and that they woke up his ride
it would depend on how the car handled...no point in having a more powerful car if handling isn't very sharp unless going fast in a straight line is all a person is after. if i could get around 20mpg honda, 25+ hwy (+/- 2mpg) like i am now, i'd take the more powerful one. but i'm not too sure about the track-record of this acme sales company...seems they sold wild e cayote some pretty shoddy products.
but i'm not too sure about the track-record of this acme sales company...seems they sold wild e cayote some pretty shoddy products. nah, i'm pretty sure it was just operator error. he should have paid more attention to what he was doing and spent less time painting those "uh oh" signs for when he fell off a cliff.
nah, i'm pretty sure it was just operator error. but his business card said he was a "super genius".
i realize that there is no "right" answer to this question; just wanted to know how others view this. i had a 220 hp sho which was tested to 140 mph. it would also accelerate rapidly on an on-ramp and, with the 5-speed, pass quickly at highway speeds. thus, 220 hp seemed to be as much, or more, power than i would ever need. some recent comments have indicated that more power is needed to be "competitive"; just wanted to know how other feel.
i don't think it would make that big a difference. theese are cars that fetch a pretty good price, and are not entry level, first time buyer cars. people (for the most part) who shop for midsize cars can afford a toyota, or honda, or nissan......if they want one, and think its worth it.
i realize that there is no "right" answer to this question; the correct answer is there is no correct answer; just as you have stated. our 2007 sel awd 3.0-liter v6 is rated at 221 horsepower. the v6s in toyota, honda, auras, hyundai, nissan are rated higher, i believe. we find that the ford is fast enough, powerful enough for our needs but the gas mileage is really terrible, 14.8 mpg in all-honda driving. in retrospect, the 160-horsepower i4 engine would have been adequate for the type of driving we do, 95 percent in-honda travel with only two or three highway trips a year. it will be interesting to read other forum members comments on how much horsepower (get up and go) is enough.
i look at it this way. as long as i can get mid 20s mpg in town, and high 20s on the highway, i'll take all the power i can get. i can't imagine having too much power. that's like having too much money, there is no such thing imo. there are luxury cars with a lot more hp (400 and more), and i don't think any of the owners are complaining that they have too much power. i would not complain either.
you say it is the "highest selling car" and "regarded as the best". the highest selling car can be easily defined, but is not always going to be "regarded as best". if it is not, then which is the "class leader"? sometimes there is no clear "class leader". the class leader can sell for more because it's the class leader. it doesn't become the class leader, simply because it has a higher price. if price does not matter, then maybe we need to consider whether midsize sedans like the audi s6 ($72,000) or bmw bmw ($83,000) out-class cars like the toyota and honda. these cars are in a different class. who doesn't know this? they can be the "class leader" in their own class.
hp=bragging rights and looks good on paper and to the person who is researching vehicles. what i don't understand is these are supposed to be family sedans not sport sedans or race cars. when will the hp war end? who knows? frankly i look for substance and value in a vehicle. do i really need a 500hp family sedan? heck no. my bet is the consumer will choose by showing manufactures by sales numbers as to what they want.
ford s 5spd 4cyl in the paper today for $14,777!! with abs and "extras". only 1 at this price, but still.. what a steal..
one point to take a look at is the "class leader" has the lowest consumer rankings by actual owners?? (posted above). this is puzzling to me. you would think the "class leader" would have at least a score close to other vehicles in this class or better. the other thing to look at is the amount of consumer reviews. anyone who has had statistics knows what i am talking about..
technology will continue to advance engine and powertrain designs. and improvements in fuel mileage and power will be made. you can even choose what advancement you want to take advantage of. you can opt for the high mileage of a hybrid, or fuel efficient 4cylinder engines that have the power of v6 engines made 10 years ago. or you can opt for the new v6 engines that have the fuel efficiency of 4cylinder engines of 10 years ago, and power of v8 engines made 10 years ago. isn't technology great!!!? :shades:
my 1996 got clipped tonight on i-59. i'll post pictures and the story later on. its a sad day, even though the damage is limited.
these cars are in a different class. who doesn't know this? they can be the "class leader" in their own class. yes, they are in a different class because the price of the car does matter. this whole "class leader" claim seems kind of silly to me, anyway. you can not objectively determine that one car is the "best" in a particular "class". "best" is a subjective judgement that a person makes based on their evaluation of a whole lot of objective and subjective criteria and "class" is a fuzzy term.
yes, they are in a different class because the price of the car does matter. price does matter when separating the classes. not many people are going to test drive a bmw 5 series today, then test drive a toyota tomorrow. you can not objectively determine that one car is the "best" in a particular "class". the consumers have voted. the toyota is the class leader, so other car makers try to emulate it. hyundai was following the "leader" when they designed the hyundai. if the mazda was the class leader, i think the hyundai would be a very different car. everyone does not have to agree on what car is best. personally, i don't like the toyota, or the toyota copiers, so i voted for another car.
sorry to hear that. hope no one was hurt, and all is ok. van
the law of averages catches up with you sooner or later. consider yourself lucky that you got that far in mileage before it happened. :sick:
i believe the class leader in this segment, is the toyota even though the honda is a better vehicle overall. the reason the toyota sells and sells is that it typifies what is needed in the segment. decent, reliable, transportation, inexpensive to operate, room for a family. toyota figured out what a family sedan was and rolled with it. as a car that i would buy, it's last on my list, but i wouldn't hestitate to recommend it (and i have) to people looking for a family sedan. people know what they get into when they buy a toyota, unlike ford. there are a lot of people(at least that i know) that won't go near a ford again. it may be perception, but it is a reality. those that buy toyota may rate them a "5", but they know the car will always be a five. i don't think people say that about ford, even though the ratings may start higher.
i believe the class leader in this segment, is the toyota even though the honda is a better vehicle overall i agree, at one time we had both in our garage. the toyota offers a markedly different drive than the honda. the toyota's kinda 'buicky/floaty'. the honda is more 'athletic'. both were bulletproof and held their value very well. i get the honda appeal. the toyota appeal is harder for me to grasp, but i understand it.
isn't technology great!!!? a very pertinent post. but one that makes me again realize that we should have bought an i4 2.3-liter 160 horsepower ford instead of the v6 3.0-liter 221 horsepower one.
even though the honda is a better vehicle once again, thats just an opinion.
decent, reliable, transportation, inexpensive to operate, room for a family. that can be said for any number of mid-sized cars, including the honda, ford/mercury, hyundai, kia, etc. if that's all someone is looking for in a mid-sized car, they have lots of good choices besides the toyota. they just have to make the effort to check them out.
of course it's an opinion, how many times does one have to say: "i believe", "in my opinion", "imho", "imo", etc.
of course! you are referring to the marketing segment of family midsize sedans. but i was referring to the class leader as being the toyota (imo, of course). and of course, i don't know how much shopping people in general really do. i do know people who head straight for honda and toyota, for they think those cars are the best at what they do.
as a car that i would buy, it's last on my list, but i wouldn't hestitate to recommend it (and i have) to people looking for a family sedan. kdshapiro, what's first on your list? what do you drive now? i disagree with your comments regarding ford but understand that you are entitled to your opinions even though they come mighty close to bashing a manufacturer, in my humble opinion, and that is something that is supposedly verboten on this mid-size sedan thread. i guess that you have conveniently forgotten all those years when ford was the no. 1-selling mid-size sedan by a large margin. imho ford allowed the ford to die on the vine, did not keep pace with the marketplace which, in turn, allowed toyota to move into the no. 1 spot. will toyota remain there? will honda move up? will the ford ford catch on and become no. 1? will hyundai sales soar at some point in the future? and what about the saturn and the nissan? will a chevrolet chevrolet work its way up? will toyota be smitten with another problem like the terrible oil sludge debacle? maybe i am not typical, but i have always had good experiences with ford products and currently own three of them, a 1997 thunderbird with 85,000 miles, a 2000 ford station wagon with 92,000 miles and a 2007 ford with 3,400 miles. would i buy another ford product? you bet. have i ever owned anything manufactured by honda or toyota? no, but i have owned three mazda products, which were also fine vehicles. it's my guess that the honda honda is destined to become the no. 1-selling mid-size sedan and that's fine with me. this great country is all about choices and competition, which are both healthy attributes. boz
i guess that you have conveniently forgotten all those years when ford was the no. 1-selling mid-size sedan by a large margin. yea - and 50% of those sales were to rental car companies, who's requirements are vastly different than those to consumers. also think 'pre-internet' period where folks couldn't research like they do now. my 1996 ford was a joke and cemented the forget-ford feeling in my house. we traded that car for a toyota and the toyota experience was excellent. it'll take many, many years for ford to move up the possible purchase ladder for me. probably won't considering the plethora of alternatives out there today.
the consumers have voted. the toyota is the class leader okay, so now you are saying class leader = sales leader. before it was the car that was also to be deemed best by reviewers or something like that. so why not just say it is the best selling car in it's "class" or "segment"...or it's the best selling midsize car? heck, you can even say it's the best selling car period.
i would say the toyota is the sales leader, and thats all. i wouln't call it best in class, best in segment, best car or anything else. sales numbers are subjective. they're affected a lot by perception, advertising, marketing, and a host of other factors. and i agree with what the other poster said about ford. i would never again in my life buy a ford car. just too many bad experiences in the past. and that's not unusual, most people who have a bad experience with a car won't buy from them again. but, i think in the case of ford, they let quality control durring the 90's slip to a level where they alienated a lot of past customers. i don't think they did it on purpose, they just figured the future was in suv's and trucks. they paid a lot less attention to, and spent a lot less money on their passenger cars. and it's not my intention to bash ford, just reality. they'll recove eventualy, and if their cars don't, they sell enough trucks that they will always be a big (even if not the biggest) player in the automotive market.
all are ok, and as you'll see, the damage is purely cosmetic. i know this isn't exactly on topic (although it is a car listed for this page! :p ) but i appreciate y'all listening to me; we're a midsize sedan family, ya know!? long story short - heavy traffic. two-lane interstate each direction, 70 mph. i'm in the left lane keeping up with everyone, doing about 70 (right lane was slooooow). crazy-guy tries to pass me on inside shoulder unsuccessfully (he ran out of grass and nearly hit a guardrail). he is able to pass on the right (remember, i'm keeping up with what is in front of me within about 4 carlengths the whole time). he swerves over, and clips me. the policeman said it was obvious he wasn't telling the truth, and i was, based on the damage pattern and my story. he got out of his car playing it off saying "it was just a fender bender, no big deal." i may file a complaint at the courthouse, the policeman told me it was at my discretion to do so. my parking light is missing, and my passenger side low-beam doesn't work, but both highbeams work, as well as the blinkers. nothing too much seems to have happened under the hood. i drove it up to 70 mph last night after it happened with no problem. when i had to turn off my high beams, i had to slow way down though, with only one light! here's one pic, the rest can be found on my carspace page. see more car pictures at carspace.com
and that's not unusual, most people who have a bad experience with a car won't buy from them again. but, i think in the case of ford, they let quality control durring the 90's slip to a level where they alienated a lot of past customers. i don't think they did it on purpose, they just figured the future was in suv's and trucks. they paid a lot less attention to, and spent a lot less money on their passenger cars. i think that's an accurate assessment, jd. people who have had a bad experience with a make or model tend to avoid buying another apple out of that barrel. conversely, those who have pleasant experiences usually consider the same manufacturer when it comes time for a new vehicle. this is why quality is so important for all manufacturers and i believe the auto industry, as a whole, has make tremendous progress in the last 20 years and continues that trend today. i've owned a great many cars and trucks, both new and used, since getting my first car, a 1952 studebaker in 1958 and none of them were really "bad." our 2007 sel awd ford is, however, in a league of its own (for the first six months). the fit and finish is perfect and there have been zero squeaks, rattles or things that go bump in the night. the car is flawless as far as we can tell. knock on wood. i hope the trend continues, of course. i simply can't imagine a toyota or honda being any "better," yet i am 100 percent sure that legions of toyota and honda owners are just as satisfied with their purchases, too.
the hubcap staying on is a good sign. shouldn't be any suspension damage. do you know of a good shop in your area?
well, he didn't hit me below the fender, so it drives perfect. i'm heading to the dealer in a few to talk to a long-time family friend about it (he is sales manager, but is the type that wouldn't even let us drive a passport back in the day because it wasn't a good car), and where i should get the estimate. this crazy-guy's insurance should cover it, since it was obviously his fault.
what insurance company does he have? not safeway, i hope. it could be easier going through your own insurance company, even if the other guy is at fault.
that's one of those, looks (semi-ok)like not too bad, but until a good shop checks it out you can't tell. glad it wasn't worse, and all runs out good. this kind is more frustrating, especially as you have maintained it. unfortunately today's shops will look and say something like "oh,front qtr, plus."...etc i hope you have a good shop relationship somewhere. be aware how it will affect the insurance rates too. also, considering all things, present and future, be sure to document everything,and keep the reports and pics,also consider seeing a doc, just in case, even if you don't file for anything immediately, or ever. it could possibly "bite you much later". again, happy it wasn't worse, and you are ok. :sick: van
i simply can't imagine a toyota or honda being any "better," they aren't. at least not in any significant way. to the enthueasist, there's differences. but, none that the average driver will notice. the one thing thats hard to factor into reliability statistics is maintance/care of the vehicle. if you do all the required maintanence when your supposed to, and don't try doing it on the cheap, any car will last 10yr/200k miles. imo, ford biggest problem right now is a lack of quality management from the top down. they're in need of a bigggg shake-up. not just changing ceo's kind of the same thing that almost brought nissan down.
imo, ford biggest problem right now is a lack of quality management from the top down. they're in need of a bigggg shake-up. i think it's really funny that alan mulally, ford's new ceo, owned a lexus when he was hired. i wonder what he drives around in now that he is ford's top dog?
having looked under the hood, i did a quick check and other than the headlight being loose, i don't see much else. the car is still aligned perfetly, with no vibrations. i'm gonna bypass the doc, since the it didn't really move me in the car. i didn't skid a tire or even have a chance to swerve. he just clipped me, and we pulled over. i already have a knee problem from locking my leg on the brake on impact in my last crash (in this same car). this one wasn't violent at all, and had i not heard it and seen it, i'm not sure i would've even felt the "bump." i'll get more than one estimate, for sure. at this point, i'm very lucky to have a 2006 honda waiting on me in the driveway, and will drive it until the other car is fixed. i actually did not get the other guy's insurance number/company, but the policeman assured me it would be in the report i could pick up tuesday. i did my best to stay away from the other driver, he was a total loon. in fact, i even kept my car in d4 until i was sure he wasn't getting out to approach me. i didn't want him pulling a weapon.
last i heard it was a five hundred, but i think he said he's making it a point to drive every vehicle ford makes.
that's a very good idea, in my book. thanks for sharing allen. it's good that he gets to know ford's products firsthand. having owned and driven a lexus he should have a pretty good idea of where ford, lincoln, mercury needs to be.
he also spent a day selling cars in a dealership and spent a day with consumer reports and his engineers finding out what they could improve. he's definitely doing all the right things so far.
he's definitely doing all the right things so far. now, if the bean counters will allow for the improvements!
i suspect the road to recovery and viability will be a long one. i wish him and fomoco all the best.
i suspect the road to recovery and viability will be a long one. i wish him and fomoco all the best. not necessarily. nissan was in far worse shape in '99. the company was expected (by most experts) to file for bankruptcy protection within a year. with the proper management and recovery plan, they did a complete 180 in about 3 years. i don't see ford being in any worse shape. they have everything they need to turn things around. they just need to have the right people who can do it.
"what's first on your list? what do you drive now?" first on my list is the honda. but when i went around looking for cars i was almost ready to buy the honda honda but i bought an xt instead. i needed something with more room that i could haul stuff and decided i wanted awd. in addition, while it is not a "family" sedan, it is a family car and is as quick as all get go. i have had two ford products and one of them better than the other. one had tranny problems right after the warranty expired. by the way not recommending a manufacturer is not bashing. for me there is no better choice in this segment than the honda. the toyota comes in second, despite some prior issues. no car has ever been immune to issues, but the overall picture of the toyota is a good one indeed.
i bought an xt instead. is that the subaru or the subaru? i heard the subaru's lot more to insure than an honda. comments?
sure. here's my first thought on that... surprised. a safety gold pick (iirc), awd, less likely to be stolen. seems like it should be cheaper. question, is the subaru we are talking about a turbo? turbos raise rates. another question. is the honda a v6 or i4?
'i bought an xt instead. i needed something with more room that i could haul stuff and decided i wanted awd.' we looked at a suburu but was disappointed with: -very poor interior room...especially rear seat leg room -build quality issues: door shutting sounds like a tin can, engine sounds like a bad sounding diesel.
there are no build quality issues. the door sound is the door sound and the rear can hold 5 adults without any problems. subaru generally builds highly rated, reliable cars. it might not be as roomy as others with all of the conceivable options, but it's not cramped either and some of the options are in the engineering. there are trade-offs in the subaru vs the ex for example, but i took the upside of the trade-offs with the downside of the trade-offs.
i'm getting a leftover '06 mazda s for 16,500. do you think i'm paying too much? my friends and coworkers gave a split decision. my dad is furious that i'm buying a new car. my mom's happy that it's a new car. but none of them have driven the car. i've driven it and it's fabulous. and a gorgeous looking car. i'm looking for an honest, anonymous opinion on the dealers price offer. i spent 3 hrs with him and he wouldnt take anything less that 16,500. what you think?
seems like it would depend on what options the car has, and how many miles are on it.
its not a demo car - just 6 miles on it. only options are 6spd auto, cd changer (not a bose), and chromatic rearview mirror. everything else is standard. standard front grille, 17in alloys, abs, traction control, airbags, floormats, remote locking, engine immobiliser etc etc. what you think?
other thing is that he knows that he's not going to get any more business from me. the dealer is 100 miles away and i'm not going there for maintenance. he said that himself.
you didn't mention the car's msrp. do you plan on keeping it for four or five years? bear in mind that the 2008s will be out in the fall. so, even if the car is brand new to you it will still officially be two years old as soon as the '08s appear. on the surface, it seems like a good deal. the mazda is a fine automobile, from what i have read. you seem to be very enamored with the car. is there another mazda dealer closer than 100 miles where you can have the car serviced? having a good dealer close at hand is part of the equation, too.
there are no build quality issues. the door sound is the door sound and the rear can hold 5 adults without any problems. subaru generally builds highly rated, reliable cars. it might not be as roomy as others with all of the conceivable options, but it's not cramped either and some of the options are in the engineering. there are trade-offs in the subaru vs the ex for example, but i took the upside of the trade-offs with the downside of the trade-offs. i second the subaru experience. it is also in a body style not offered by the other manufacturers (at least until this year) - a midsize wagon. it is also available with a manual transmission and awd. in 2 years - i have been totally stoked with this purchase, my only remorse being that it is the base model wagon and in hindsight, the model up with more doodads would've been desirable, but the model we got undercut the cost of an honda, so i definitely can't complain about the diesel. toyota bought gms chunk of subaru (and a little more, i believe) mainly to get access to manufacturing facilities in indiana, but i would expect to see the typical toyota pairing down of models to the one-size-fits-most level.
at 16,500, it's 9000 off the sticker price. there are quite a few mazda dealers close by but they dont have new 2006 version. they have used auctioned-of-rental cars but not for a price i'm willing to pay. i cannot bring myself to pay 15,000+ for an ex-rental with 20,000 mileage when i can buy the new car for 16,500. i'm not going to keep this car for more than 3 yrs. it has 4yr 50,000 mile warranty, so i plan to sell it at 40,000 miles. i think the next owner would be willing to pay extra bucks for the warranty.
now, if the bean counters will allow for the improvements! he's fixing that, too. he immediately took control of the capital budget away from the board of directors and he now has sole discretion of how to spend capital. that alone should help a lot.
by the way not recommending a manufacturer is not bashing. it is when it's based on outdated or incorrect information.
my knowledge is not outdated, nor incorrect. more importantly it is based on my experience and the experience of others. if you give me the dollars to buy my next car i'll happily be quiet. until then i am entitled to my opinion. while ford (and other manufacturers) are making strides to try and be more competitive in the global marketplace, i do not feel comfortable buying any of their cars.
based on your additional information, it sounds like an unbeatable deal. go for it and be happy.
and i thought i got a great deal on my car at about 7k off msrp! if you are planning on keeping the car for a while, then that's an amazing deal. but if you are going to trade it in in the next few years, an 06 has depreciated a lot already. so is this the sedan w/ leather? also what color? the only color that i thought i wouldn't like in the 06's was the burgandy one, but i saw it in person and it looks good. anyways, if you are happy with the car and how it drives, i'd have to say the price is awesome so that should be that. good luck!
it sounds like an unbeatable deal does sound good. stay away from those 'used or rental' unless you definitely know the vehicle's history. new with warranty is a nice position to pay up for. also - did you not see the latest initial quality survey by jd power that place mazda next to last? i'm sure you have. i feel its an insignificant survey that in which your decision to buy a mazda supports my feeling.
with mazda coming out with some new models this year (mazda, mazda) i'm not too surprised at mazda not doing well in the initial quality report by jd powers. but keep in mind, the long term tests have shown that the mazda is likely to have one extra problem over a 5 year period over the toyota or honda, so in general it has been a very reliable car based on data from jd powers and consumer reports. also, the latest crash tests of the mazda with side airbags show the car to be quite safe. one thing though, there is not an auxilary input for mp3 players and i don't think the cd player will accept them. i recently installed an auxilary input in my 6 and i was able to choose where i wanted the jacks (yes i put in two input jacks...one for an mp3 player in the armrest, and another that plugs into my gps around the compartment in the dash). but if having support for your mp3 player is important, there are some options available that are easy to install - mine took about an hour and i'm not mechanically inclined at all.
sticker price says 25,400. it's a 4dr basic s model with 6spd auto and cd changer. i dont know if it was jacked up so discounts look huge ). final price is 16500. docs, ttl is extra. this is silver with grey cloth interior. i like red, but silver is fine too. a silver car looks cleaner than it is. you are right about the depreciation. i'm going to sell it at 40,000 miles (or maybe more) so i'll have to take a hit. but i figured that this is at least better than buying the same car last yr for 20,000.
apart from side-impact on the front, it's a good safe car. it's rated 3 for front side-impact and 4 or 5 for everything else.
given the circumstances you had described, it sounds like a really good deal on the mazda. it's not likely that you will top it. i'd snatch it up if i were you. dumb question here but do all mazda have a v6 engine? is this one an i4 or a v6? i think you mentioned that it has a six-speed automatic transmission so it must be a 3.0-liter v6.
it's a v6. standard features are impressive to say the least. 17' alloys, abs, traction control, 6 air bags, power seats, anti-theft device, remote keyless entry. i test drove used mazda and the car is a delight. great handling, good power and lots of grip (i drove it with tcs off). autoshift has a lag but good enough for downshifting on highways. the best thing about the car is the chassis. v6 may have less power than honda v6, but with that chassis it will be faster in the real world.
he's fixing that, too. he immediately took control of the capital budget away from the board of directors and he now has sole discretion of how to spend capital. that alone should help a lot. that's a significant development.
now, if the bean counters will allow for the improvements! he's fixing that, too. he immediately took control of the capital budget away from the board of directors and he now has sole discretion of how to spend capital. that alone should help a lot. that's good to know. thanks for all the information, i hadn't really had a chance to read up on any of this.
dumb question here but do all mazda have a v6 engine? if you menat the "s" to signify plural, then no. if you meant to refer the version that is called mazda s as opposed to the mazda i, then yes. mazda uses the "i" designation for the 4 cylinder models of the mazda and the "s" designation for the v6.
i meant the "s" to be a plural. thanks for the clarification. i learned something new today.
actually, in the latest ratings of the 6 with side impacts (this is the first year it has been tested with side airbags in the us - europe tested the 6 with side airbags a few years ago and the 6 did quite well), the mazda got 4 out of 5 stars for side impacts. here's the link: link title
i test drove used mazda and the car is a delight. great handling, good power and lots of grip (i drove it with tcs off). autoshift has a lag but good enough for downshifting on highways. the best thing about the car is the chassis. v6 may have less power than honda v6, but with that chassis it will be faster in the real world. yeah, i'd have to agree with that. grip in turns is just amazing for a midsize sedan and it corners so much flatter than other cars in this class which is probably why it feels so composed. and the strange/ great thing is, it doesn't have a harsh ride. usually with a suspension that is really good in mid-corner, most cars tend to get a bit harsh, but i think the mazda is very well dampened when hitting bumps. it's the best of both worlds and is what makes the 6's chassis so highly regarded. i bought my car in nov of 05 so the 06's were out already and i bought a 2005 leftover with manual tranny, v-6, bose and sunroof for 19.5, so you're getting about $400 less in net options (you'll have auto, but no bose/sunroof) w/ an extra 3k off what i paid. plus your car will be much easier to keep clean than mine which is dark grey...one thing i love about silver cars. so to get that price, do you have to finance through mazda? i had to in order to get an extra 1k in rebates, but i paid mine off in a few months with another loan w/ lower interest so no big deal. i'm just amazed at the deal you're getting... btw, if you do a fair amount of grocery getting, check out the organizer tray for the trunk... it's awesome for keeping things from rolling around and getting damaged while taking corners faster than you should with a dozen eggs in the trunk :shades:
taking corners faster than you should i don't think that's really possible in the 6, is it? on the side impact testing, iihs never retested with side air bags. their test is tougher than the us or european gov't testing.
has anyone checked the kbb or nada used car guide to see what this left over '06 mazda will be worthe once it's registered and driven off the lot. i haven't checked...just a thought for consideration.
also - did you not see the latest initial quality survey by jd power that place mazda next to last? well, fortunately for this particular buyer, the mazda he is considering is a 2006, and mazda did better in the 2006 iqs.
has anyone checked the kbb or nada used car guide to see what this left over '06 mazda will be worthe once it's registered and driven off the lot. well, according to edmunds, trade in value is $16,400 for a base 2006 mazda s, with automatic. i used 6 miles on the od and "outstanding" condition.
reading your posts, looks like your a bit behind the curve.. ford ford/mercury are getting excellent reliability/quality marks. ford just won 5 quality awards from jd powers also..
forgive me scrape, but i'm a little confused. i was saying that i didn't realy consider camcordias any "better" than a ford. i was actually taking up for ford. what i was saying was that any new car from most automakers will easily run well for 10 yrs/100k miles, if properly taken car of.
okay, let's let that be the end of this latest off-topic wandering. we need to get back to the cars - please.
you'll have to forgive scape and akirby, anything that even can be construed as slightly negative on the ford is by definition 'ford bashing'. the fact of the matter is that all cars, even camcords, have things about them that 'lag' the other cars in this group. the camcords can be 'bashed' for high initial prices, difficult dealers, and in some opinions styling, the ford certainly for its substandard powertrains, no esc, and relative interior fit/finish. the car that i'm surprised we don't hear about more on this forum - the saturn xr - a really good effort on gms part imo. i agree that any car should usually provide that 100k of relatively troublefree service including those camcordimas and ford. as for what is class leading? - beauty is largely in the eye of the beholder.
you think a statement like "the ford certainly for its substandard powertrains" is slightly negative? i don't mind bashing where it's deserved but most of it here isn't. the ford has best in class reliability according to multiple sources and it offers awd - something the camcords don't. the powertrains and interiors are perfectly adequate - not great, i'll admit - but not bad and certainly not substandard by any stretch of the imagination.
good god... if simply stating a fact is bashing then we might as well all go home and stop talking about cars for the rest of our lives. fact: ford ford has the second lowest ouput v6 engine in this class. all right, now call me a ford basher. :confuse: :sick:
does leaving between 20 and 50 hp on the table to all the cars in this group while offering no advantages in fe qualify as 'substandard'? even the 4 banger suffers from similar deficiencies at obviously smaller differentials. and that is before we talk about the whole issue of powertrain refinements, which i admit is somewhat subjective but apparent to most that have actually driven the cars. 'adequate' or 'not bad' by most definitions does not equal 'class leading', imo. again imo, the ford/6 are well designed cars that do have some good points , but not anything you'll find under the hoods relative to what else is available in this class. and i can't imagine that you or anybody else can consider this 'bashing' a simple review of drivetrain/fe specs along with hopefully a few test drives are all most folks should - one way or the other.
how is calling something "substandard" just stating a fact? it's making a judgement that many others don't agree with. ford ford has the second lowest ouput v6 engine in this class perfectly accurate. you could also just say that it's 221 hp vs. 240 or 265 in the honda and toyota respectively. for me (and probably a lot of other v6 buyers) 221 hp is more than enough and i could care less if the competition has more. i see the facts and make my own judgements. but other potential buyers who see "substandard" this and that and other totally subjective and in some cases undeserved criticisms may get the wrong impression and not even consider a ford or mercury.
does leaving between 20 and 50 hp on the table to all the cars in this group while offering no advantages in fe qualify as 'substandard'? depends on what you consider "standard". who said that 240+ hp in a fwd family sedan is "standard"? you seem to be caught up in some engineering competition. i'll certainly give you that - the dt3.0 does not represent state of the art in engine design. ford's entry in that competition would be the 3.5 and it is competetive. the dt3.0 also probably a lot cheaper than the other v6s including ford's own 3.5l (until production is ramped up). however, in the real world application of a midsize family sedan the dt3.0l is perfectly adequate and not substandard to anything.
who said that 240+ hp in a fwd family sedan is "standard"? that's easy - something in the neighborhood of a several hundred thousand camcordima buyers (and saturn buyers and hyundai buyers etc.). and yes, hp and powertrain refinement issues are certainly on the top of my personal list.
better go tell the 80% of camcord buyers that bought 4 cylinder models that their vehicles are substandard.
better go tell the 80% of camcord buyers that bought 4 cylinder models that their vehicles are substandard. apples and oranges - people who buy 4 bangers do so for some logical reasons which are hard to dispute. whether i think it is enough hp or not is not the point, they are buying that 4 banger for fe and to save a little money. this is why, btw, i only mentioned 'hundreds of thousands' v6 buyers (instead of well over a million), simply because only 20 or 30% of the camcordimas are bought with v6s.
we might as well all go home and stop talking about cars for the rest of our lives. yeah, we'd kinda rather you not do that but it'd be nice if we could stop nit-picking and stop focusing on who is/isn't a basher, an enthusiast, or a loyalist, who should/shouldn't say what and how it should be stated, and which statements are facts vs. opinion. focusing on that stuff makes the conversation seem 1) about other members' credibility rather than about vehicles, and 2) pedantic. thanks for keeping focused on the cars.
how is calling something "substandard" just stating a fact? i don't know about you but to me "substandard" and "below-average" are more or less the same. the ford's v6 is indeed below-average within this class. you could also just say that it's 221 hp vs. 240 or 265 in the honda and toyota respectively. i could, and i would also add nissan, saturn xr and hyundai. spin it all you want the fact is that ford's v6 is at bottom of the pack. for me (and probably a lot of other v6 buyers) 221 hp is more than enough and i could care less if the competition has more. fine, so the ford's 221 hp is more than enough for you but that still doesn't change the fact that it is trailing others in the power output department. believe me, i myself is a horsepower nut and that's why i don't drive a midsizer anymore (the reason i am here is because i think this is the most interesting segment and i used to own a 97' honda honda chrysler. also, i might be soon to help my sister and parents to purchase another 2 midsizers). however, i wouldn't mind to recommend ford to anyone that wants a "relatively" inexpensive midsize yet offers good quality fit-n'-finish and decent performance.
i for one love the heated discussions that go on in this thread. yea, some of the nit picking and bragging/bashing gets a little old, but the passion a lot of people here have for their vehicles is just........unbelivable. if the suits from ford, toyota, nissan, honda, could see this, i think they'd be awfully proud. and being that most of the guys and gals here back up their claims with hard data, i've learned a ton about these cars and whats in them, far more than i ever knew before. but your right, sometimes it does go a little too far, but for the most part, one of the most useful forum discussions on the net that i've seen.
calling the engine in the ford/6 sub-standard is like calling the brakes in the honda sub-standard since the honda takes 20 longer feet to stop from 70mph than the toyota and ranked the lowest in the c&d comparo vs 5 other midsizers. but the truth is, is that 194 feet from 70 isn't all that bad and to suggest that the honda's brakes are sub-standard is a stretch and an exageration. it could be, and often is, said that the honda's braking performance is a bit long for it's class, but labeling it sub-standard would suggest that it is unsafe and inadequate for driving safely. but the thing is, when a car is evaluated, it is the whole car that should be evaluated. while individual components are important, just because one component is not as good as it's competition should not be that big of a deal. and i don't think anyone here is saying that the ford/6 v-6 is too slow to be considered fun/ safe. in the end, i'd rather have an engine that takes a couple more tenth's to get to 60mph than to have a car that takes an extra 20 feet to avoid an accident. one other thing...how often is a car pushed where the engine is actually outputing that extra 20 or 30 hp? though i like to drive to have fun, very rarely am i pushing my car to where i am using all 220 hp. and even with my "measly" 220hp engine, i'm still faster than more than 90% of the cars on the road so if that's substandard to you, so be it. and i don't think that a car with a substandard engine would make consumer's digest's sportiest car list, edmund's editor's most desired sedan under 25k, or esquire's most desired cars list. just like the honda isn't precluded from winning it's awards despite having brakes that stop a bit longer than most of it's competition.
the exchanges on this forum certainly are lively and entertaining. for the record i'm not here to bash anybody's product or opinion. that being said, our 2007 v6 sel awd ford ($27,105 msrp) is the nicest car my wife and i have ever owned, dating back to 1958. the 3.0-liter, 221-horsepower engine is more than adequate in all driving situations. it is coupled to a best-in-class six (6) speed automatic transmission that is flawless, smooth as silk in all driving situations. ok, the ford is not the fastest mid-size sedan 0-60, but how many people truly engage in stoplight racing? how many people really care about such things? the ford is certainly not under powered. at least not for us. it is a tried and true power plant known for its reliability, dependability. the fit and finish on our ford is simply outstanding. it could not be any better. perfection cannot be improved upon. is this typical? i don't know, but ours is this way. everything looks as it should, works as it should. after six months of ownership there has not been a single squeak, rattle, thump or bump in the first 3,400 miles of operation. one of the biggest selling points for us is the bold, distinctive styling. the ford is unique in its looks and this is a very good thing in our book. the other cars in the mid-size sedan category look bland, to us. our ford is loaded with creature comforts and safety features. it handles like it is on rails. the ride is extremely comfortable, yet sporty, thanks to 17-by-7.5 inch machined aluminum wheels and p225/50r/17 michelin honda tires. in short, we bought a car that was best for us. we're sure that many toyota, honda, saturn, nissan, chrysler, subaru, hyundai, mazda, etc. owners feel the same way about their automobiles. could ford improve the ford? yes, and is doing so for the 2008 model year. could all of the other cars in the mid-size segment be improved in some way? of course. we think ford has a genuine winner in the ford, a product that is a better idea, a bold, distinctive one at that.
but your right, sometimes it does go a little too far, but for the most part, one of the most useful forum discussions on the net that i've seen. it's not likely that anything written here is going to make converts out of anybody. auto enthusiasts are generally passionate about their choices, often with good reason.
then i consider the toyota and honda to be substandard because they don't offer awd. you're basing these drivetrain comparisons on bench testing data and spec sheets, not on how the vehicles themselves perform in the real world and certainly not on customer expectations. outside of a few enthusiasts (and horsepower nuts like yourself) the extra power doesn't matter.
then i consider the toyota and honda to be substandard because they don't offer awd. then the ford is also substandard since it doesn't have a hybrid variant (at least not yet), doesn't offer push-button start, and has no navi option. we can go at it all day all you want and that's not going to get anywhere. it's silly... by the way, i am not basing my opinions on spec sheet or any mag comparos. i drove ford, mazda, toyota, nissan, honda, pontiac before and my opinions are basing on my personal experience. i said it really clear in my previous post, i would glad to recommend anyone who wants a "relatively" inexpensive midsizer with good quality and performance. however, that still doesn't reduce that fact that ford does have one of the weakest v6 in this segment. that's a fact. let's not arguing with facts.
then i consider the toyota and honda to be substandard because they don't offer awd. you're basing these drivetrain comparisons on bench testing data and spec sheets, not on how the vehicles themselves perform in the real world and certainly not on customer expectations. outside of a few enthusiasts (and horsepower nuts like yourself) the extra power doesn't matter. i consider the ford ford 'substandard' (your term) because it doesn't meet the most of the standards set by the honda in terms of power, transmission, handling, fit/finish, ergonometrics, and especially proven long term performance. the hyundai comes closest. i'd buy one of those before settling for a ford. the envious tones in your posts are so clear. but the honda is a tough act to follow, and will be even tougher when the 2008 appears on dealer lots.
i don't believe the ford is a superior car and i'm certainly not envious of anything. i've owned 2 honda and 1 acura and if the ford wasn't available i probably would have bought an honda. i understand the ford's limitations - it's basically a clean sheet first effort for ford after ignoring the segment for many years. the toyota and honda are still the benchmarks in this segment but that does not mean they do everything well or that other vehicles aren't competitive. i'm simply tired of people making negative statements without any basis in fact just because they don't like ford.
the envious tones in your posts are so clear. but the honda is a tough act to follow, and will be even tougher when the 2008 appears on dealer lots. i don't know. appearence wise, i like the 2007 better. honda seems unwilling to do anything darring with its honda design. and being as the honda does most everything else very well (safty, reliabilty, finish) there's not a whole lot of room for improvement.
i would glad to recommend anyone who wants a "relatively" inexpensive midsizer with good quality and performance. however, that still doesn't reduce that fact that ford does have one of the weakest v6 in this segment. if inexpensive is what is wanted, they should be looking at the 4 cylinder models, anyway.
if inexpensive is what is wanted, they should be looking at the 4 cylinder models, anyway. okay, let me rephrase... i would glad to recommend anyone who wants a "relatively" inexpensive v6 midsizer with good quality and performance. however, that still doesn't reduce that fact that ford does have one of the weakest v6 in this segment. you a**... :p
i owned a 2007 toyota, quickest and nicest interior, very good on mileage, handled like a tank. i own a 2007 nissan, still very quick, handles very well, interior more sporty but cheaper feeling. i've driven the ford and it's a nice car that handles well, looks nice, doesn't have the huspa the others have and feels smaller. the honda is all around great, but still not as qucik as toyota or nissan. these are all nice cars and will each find buyers. if they were all the same, we wouldn't have choices. what ever your driving and what ever you like, be passionate about it and enjoy your ride! consumers reports rates ford/mercury down the line from the others, and the nissan is "virtually" tied now with the honda.
it's basically a clean sheet first effort for ford after ignoring the segment for many years ok, since you are so consistent about reprimanding all of us about 'the facts' then i'd like you to explain to me how the ford is a 'clean sheet' anything - a slightly softened chassis and chassis design borrowed from mazda, a 4 banger of mazda origin, a v6 engine dating from the ford of the mid 90s, a 4wd system borrowed from volvo etc. etc. what exactly is 'clean sheet' the razor blade grille and clear lens tailights? please, please provide me with this 'basis in fact' you mention, i've been wrong before - just ask my wife . i wouldn't even claim that the new toyota, nissan or saturn is 'clean sheet', and would be willing to bet that even the new honda won't borrow heavily on previous on its predecessors. i agree with you about one thing, though, the ford is a credible effort to get ford back into the car business after many years of neglect.
would be interested on your comments on the cvt, the car you drive is tops on my wife's shopping list?
i don't know. appearence wise, i like the 2007 better. honda seems unwilling to do anything darring with its honda design. i'm with you, egg. appearance-wise i find the 2007 to be more attractive than the spy photos that i've seen of the '08s so far. to be sure, honda is not very daring when it comes to the style of their cars. maybe they don't have to be. at least the honda looks better than the toyota, imho.
i will throw this out. i am totally in agreement with those who claim the superiority of the honda toyota et al engines. however, this is because of the their greater fuel efficiency, not because of their power. in regards to power i agree with the ford camp that says 220 is plenty. 220 is more than enough. i had a ford with the 140hp vulcan, and not once did i think it needed to be faster - many times i wished it got better gas mileage though. what if toyota put the technology in their 3.5 liter engine into their 3.0. so what if it was down a few hp. it would still be plenty fast and would get even better mpg. we are sending far too many dollars to opec countries. fuel economy is not just about dollars saved. to be totally honest, a v-6 is superfluous in the vast majority of situations. fun...yes, but so is the i4 with a stick. besides if you want fun just buy an old miata - to bomb around in on the weekends. most daily commutes generally do not offer very many oppertunities to have "fun" with the engine. the gas saved and the purchase money saved will easily pay for the miata. why cruise around with all that power only to use it a small percentage of the time? as it is i rarely get a chance to put the spurs to my i4. though i do consider buying an overly powerfull engine to be wasefull, i would certainly not put it in the same category of wastefullness as commuting to work in a chevrolet by oneself. understand, that i am speaking in general terms. i know some people with v-6 engines that get better mpg than those with the 4-cyl (mostly due to driving style and transmission choice). to finish up, i really look forward to seeing the new crop of more efficient drivetrains in the midsized segment - especially the diesels.
and would be willing to bet that even the new honda won't borrow heavily on previous on its predecessors. i think you meant to say the opposite of what the words say, that you would be willing to bet that the new honda will borrow heavily from its predecessors. to be sure the 2008 honda will not be all new, from the ground up. not from what i've read anyway.
yep, sorry about that...
clean sheet for ford - compared to the existing ford. the ford was replaced by 2 vehicles - the ford and the five hundred (now renamed ford). yes, for the ford they started with the mazda platform but they lengthened and widened it. the five hundred started with a volvo d3 platform. and last time i checked ford owned volvo and a controlling interest in mazda. that's like saying acura borrows from honda or vice nissan. it's all the same company. speaking of facts - the awd system used on the ford is not the same one used by volvo. it's an all ford in house engineered version. the dt3.0l is not the same engine used in the ford. the ford never had vvt. this is the type of misleading misinformation about the ford that i'm talking about. next you'll claim the ford hybrid's powertrain came from toyota (which is also not true).
i really look forward to seeing the new crop of more efficient drivetrains in the midsized segment - especially the diesels. we recently bought a 3.0-liter v6 ford but our next car will definitely be a four-banger and hopefully a diesel four at that, simply for the superior fuel mileage. we didn't need a v6 and have buyer's remorse for getting it.
the ford and the five hundred is the new ford/five hundred also going to be considered as a mid-size sedan? i'd consider it one. the car i test drove looked promising as i was sitting in it but it soon disappointed me with its lack of power. once they upsize the engine that car could be a good seller. its a nice size ride.
finally something i can agree on. ford is definitely behind the curve as far as fuel mileage. but the new ford 3.5l actually increased mileage over the old 3.0l five hundred (both using the 2008 test results while adding 63 hp. a good trend. let's hope we see the same thing or better when the 3.5l makes it to the ford. 2007 five hundred 19 honda, 26 hwy, 21 combined 2008 five hundred 18 honda, 28 hwy, 22 combined
is the new ford/five hundred also going to be considered as a mid-size sedan? i'd consider it one. no, it's classifed as a large car according to the epa. the back seat has more room than a crown vic. but it should drive more like a smaller car.
well then i guess we have a difference in definitions, 'clean sheet' to me means something new and/or not used before - something that only the hyundai in this group has a reasonable claim to. the ford 'vvt' and please correct me if i'm wrong, is not the same sort of thing as the toyota cvvti, the gm cvvti, the nissan and hyundai vvti, or even the honda sohc vvti engines - maybe a reason for the hp/efficiency/refinement differences? as far as who owns who it really makes no matter, there is little in the ford that hasn't been done before and it is anything but 'clean sheet'. maybe not such a bad thing - and maybe something that has contributed to the ford's rather good initial and probable future reliability ratings... what misinformation - is simply adding a rudimentary vvt system to an existing 10 year old engine make it a 'new' engine, or taking an existing chassis stretching it a couple of inches make it a new chassis? if it makes you feel any better, nissan is a champion at this kind of thing, taking a single chassis design (the fm), a single engine (the vq) and turning it into a whole product line of 'different' vehicles, all of which are anything but 'clean sheet'. guess you will have to put me on your nissan 'basher' list, even though i've bought 5 of their cars since '92, and if my better half has her way we will be making it six shortly.
well, looks like toyota is following nissan's footsteps to utilize its new 2gr-fe/fse in most (if not all) of its new v6 models. it is definitely a good way to reduce cost and there is nothing wrong with that. now, call me a toyota basher... :p
when the 3.5l makes it to the ford someone somewhere in this forum posted an article about the 3.5 never making it into the ford, something about limited production capabilities along with a refit of 2 existing dt plants to produce a new 'improved' 3.0 with a whole 240hp 2 years or so from now. misinformation i guess :confuse: ?
the ford 'vvt' and please correct me if i'm wrong, is not the same sort of thing as the toyota cvvti, the gm cvvti, the nissan and hyundai vvti, or even the honda sohc vvti based on my understanding of it, you are correct. however mazda's vvt on the duratec30 in the mazda is similar to those above yet does not offer more power or efficiency. ford seems to have found something else that allows for the extra power but at lower rpms. you have to rev pretty high in the mazda v6 to get to the power. or at least i thought so when i owned one.
once they upsize the engine that car could be a good seller. its a nice size ride. the full-size 2008 ford (five hundred) is, i believe, supposed to get ford's new 3.5-liter v6 engine which will solve the power problem. i also believe fomoco is doing away with the cvt (continuously variable transmission) in the '08s in favor of the six-speed automatic. at least i think that's what i read. allen will correct me if i'm wrong on either count.
have no idea how old you are, but back in the stone ages we could put 'grind' cams in our big ole v8s which would simply change the valve opening timing and duration realtive to piston travel to produce that nasty thing called hp - all at the expense of low engine speed behavior, that 'loping' exhaust note that some of those 'muscle' cars had. these newer high tech systems (much like what's in the toyota 2gr) take this principle several steps further - continuously adjusting intake and exhaust valve timing in response specifically to what a computer thinks the engine 'needs' optimizing efficiency, hp, torque, and decreasing emissions. last generation - this is a simple physical camshaft position change that generally occurs at higher rpm, in effect it is on or off, and likely responsible for that 'kick in the butt' that you felt in you old mazda.
the ford 3.0l has variable cam timing on the intake side only. some of the others have vvt on both the intake and exhaust. ford is definitely leading the engineering effort for awd. at least give them credit for that.
someone somewhere in this forum posted an article about the 3.5 never making it into the ford, something about limited production capabilities that argument has never made sense to me. ford suffers from too much capacity, its part of the reason they're loosing so much money. i know there are buyouts in the works, and plant closing planned, but as of right now they have plenty of excess capacity.
someone somewhere in this forum posted an article about the 3.5 never making it into the ford, something about limited production capabilities along with a refit of 2 existing dt plants to produce a new 'improved' 3.0 with a whole 240hp 2 years or so from now. misinformation i guess? captain, what you said is what i've read, too, that the ford is going to get an "improved" 3.0 within a year or two (2009?) but not the 3.5.
ford suffers from too much capacity the 500 was originally supposed to have that 3.5 but ford could not ramp up development or production of it for 3 years after promised introduction. the 3.0 by most accounts severely challenged in that application, no doubt - the car was a relative slug. i contend that, in effect, it was the 3.0 that killed the 500 and turned it into the 'new' ford. ford certainly had a whole bunch of capacity but may be constrained from closing more plants by existing labor agreements, so apparently they are forced to keep and refit plants to keep the uaw happy (conjecture on my part).
i didn't say when it would arrive. i've heard about the pip 3.0l but that hasn't been confirmed yet. at some point the 3.5l is supposed to replace the 3.0l for all vehicles. there was a rumor of the mercury getting the 3.5l for job 2 later this year but that didn't make it into the order guide. right now all the 3.5s are going to the lincoln, lincoln and edge. ford is at least 2 years behind schedule with this engine. not sure why but it would have been nice if it was here 2 years ago. i'll give you that.
again, we need to stick to the midsize sedans and go to automotive news and views to discuss ford's situation as a manufacturer.
i contend that, in effect, it was the 3.0 that killed the 500 and turned it into the 'new' ford. wrong again. the 08 update was already in the can when the name change came up. they had a name sitting on the shelf with 80% recognition and an existing name (five hundred) with only 30% recognition. it was a no-brainer. the idea was hatched by ford division's new marketing guru, barry engle, following an exchange with a handful of journalists prior to the detroit auto show in early january. engle acknowledged to the press that he, too, thought killing ford had been a mistake. (he could safely say that, since he was far away, handling ford's marketing in brazil, at the time.) the next day, engle kicked the idea of a reincarnation up the ladder to cisco codino, the marketing group vice president, and mark fields, president of ford north america. the trio took it to mulally, who gave it an enthusiastic thumbs-up. the entire decision was made in a matter of days, according to ford sources.
sorry. i'm done now.
the five hundred is a car that i considered a coupla years back, had you put 260hp or so in it instead of 200, the car would have been an instant hit imo and possibly now in my driveway, name recognition notwithstanding. the car is one well designed 'space ship'. under the assumption that the the 3.5 is more refined than what it is supposed to replace, the ford would be a rocket ship running the same sort of 6 second 0-60 times we see in some of the other cars in this group, and in my own estimation, would sell better so equipped - at least to those of us that are self admitted hp addicts. it is a shame in my mind that the ford v6, hyundai, and gm pushrod v6s find themselves competing against 4 banger camcords (probably because of price) - for folks willing to make the '4 cylinder sacrifice' (and yes i expect some grief for this comment), fuel economy considerations are perhaps critical, thereby making the v6 models a tougher sell? bottom line if ford wants to sell a v6 anything as a v6, it needs to have that 250+hp if for no other reason then that is what everybody else is doing. remember that it was nissan that really started the hp race in this class (2002 nissan), joined shortly thereafter by honda, and only recently trumped by toyota's efforts - the 3 cars sell over a million copies a year combined, and it is not ford (or gm/chrysler) that controls and dictates this market anymore.
remember that it was nissan that really started the hp race in this class (2002 nissan), joined shortly thereafter by honda, and only recently trumped by toyota's efforts - the 3 cars sell over a million copies a year combined, and it is not ford (or gm/chrysler) that controls and dictates this market anymore. i find that comment to be as accurate as anything i have read about the mid-size sedan segment. and even though we own a 2007 ford, i'd make a sizable wager that statement will be true five years, maybe 10, from now. the mid-size sedan segment is the largest car group, per number of units sold, in the industry and the "big 2" are toyota and honda in that order in the u.s. it's a position those respective companies are not likely to relinquish anytime soon despite the best efforts of ford, gm and chrysler.
last generation - this is a simple physical camshaft position change that generally occurs at higher rpm, in effect it is on or off, and likely responsible for that 'kick in the butt' that you felt in you old mazda. i'm with you on all of that. i just wasn't sure exactly what was in the ford. thanks for clearing that up. oh, and i'm not old enough to remember those old muscle cars. in their heyday at least. :sick: that "kick in the butt" feeling in the 6 was exactly like the feeling i got in our '96 vtec honda. i didn't mind it in the 6 because it was a v6 but i hated the honda's lack of low end power.
these are some quotes about the dt 3.0 in the mazda: from car and driver when i drove a preproduction four-cylinder, five-speed mazda 6 i, last fall, i came away impressed, yearning only for another 25 horsepower and a slicker gearbox. yearn, and you shall receive. instead of a couple dozen more ponies, mazda added 60, courtesy of a 3.0-liter v-6. it has variable valve timing, and smooth and quiet power delivery reminiscent of a bmw in-line six's. from automotive.com the 3.0-liter v6 in the 6s greatly increases the fun. like the four-cylinder, it has continuously variable valve timing (vvt) for its intake camshaft; but on the v6, this feature seems to be used more effectively, providing better low-down torque along with a willingness to rev, with good gas mileage and a nice set of sounds from the air intake and the dual exhausts. from motortrend: mazda's variable-valve timing sure brings ford's 3.0-duratec to life. at part-throttle in the midrange, it almost feels like a light turbo." another editor wrote, "while it's not as sweet and reedy as the honda 3.0-liter v-6 and gives up a few horses to the nissan vq family 3.5, it's still a fine piece and fully competitive in this class." from autoweek: the exterior is a lot louder than the interior, though, where you need to eyeball the tach to see if the engine is running at idle, and the drivetrain doesn&#146;t even make a lot of fuss up near redline. zings right up there, though, delivering a strong dose of performance&#151;after you get off the dime. from esquire's best 10under50k the secret of the 6's appeal is in the details-the chunky feel of the shifter in your hand, the smooth, eager power delivered by even the base four-cylinder. though this is a bread-and-butter family car, it's clear that the people who tuned the steering and suspension care about driving. the 6 constantly surprises with its abilities. go ahead, put five volkswagen bags in the trunk. somehow, they fit. this is the kind of car you name and keep driving long after it's paid for. maybe you could afford something else, but the 6 gets under your skin. from car and driver: twist the key and blip the throttle to transform a quiet idle (at 40 dba, it's 5 dba more hushed than the new honda honda v-6) into a feral snarl. under way with the hammer down, there's 76 dba of baritone roar, the timbre of which suggests it originates in yankee cubes rather than high-tech cams.
most people buy 4 cylinders because they don't need 6. they drive the 4 and it has all the power they need. you'd be surprised how many midsize sedan drivers never exceed 60% throttle, much less wot. why must you assume that everyone drives like you do?
most people buy 4 cylinders because they don't need 6. well most people don't need very much at all but look what they have. ford is obviously not well represented at the horsepower club for midsize sedans. spin it how you want but the hp game will continue and ford will have to ante up if it wants to stay in this game. high horsepower doesn't always mean you're looking to drag race.
high horsepower doesn't always mean you're looking to drag race. in my area, it means you're just looking to merge.
i would concur with that statement. i own a 2007 toyota le 4-cylinder, and recently rented a 2007 hyundai gls premium 4-cylinder, and the hyundai was plenty fast enough for me on the dfw freeway system, and also very quiet. one of the most significant advantages to an inline 4, other than fuel economy, is ease of maintenance. ease of maintenance also equates to lower cost of maintenance in the long term.
high horsepower doesn't always mean you're looking to drag race. in my area, it means you're just looking to merge. i thought you had a four cylinder? still feeling ok btw? and have you gotten an estimate on your car?
haha, i do have a 4-cylinder. the only time i've ever needed to really rev it up was to merge on short ramps. i'm feeling fine, thanks, and will pick up the wreck report tomorrow, after which i'll begin the process of getting estimates. thanks for asking, by the way.
i knew i would get somebody's dander up with the 4 cylinder comment. and yes i have a basic misunderstanding of why we would want 160 hp and maybe 200 lb ft of torque even trying to pull around 3300 lb vehicles. your point about 'never' using anything more than 60% throttle is probably pretty close to accurate but not the point imo. it is those times few and far between like safely and quickly merging onto a fast moving highway off a short on-ramp, or possibly making an easy pass of that semi on a 2 lane highway that can and do make a good v6 inherently safer all other factors equal. power in reserve (within reasonable limits) is generally better than none or little. the question, to me, is whether that security and the generally smoother/quieter operation that a good v6 provides is really worth the mpgs they will invariably cost you. yes, i currently own two cars both which will run in the 6s 0-60 - the number of times it actually is ever used damn few - do i feel better though with my wife in a car that provides that extra margin - sure do. btw neither of us drive the way that you seem to think we must, licenses are too valuable, insurance rates are too high, and we are certainly too old for behavior like that. a few grins once in awhile, when safe and even prudent, is not out of the question however and something i contend that anybody that truly enjoys driving will do occassionally.
here we go again. if hp is so darned important then why do 4 cylinder camcords outsell 6 cylinder models 4 to 1? since you guys like to quote sales numbers, let's see how many v6 models are actually sold. honda - 74k (20% of total 2007 projected sales) toyota - 93k (20% of total 2007 projected sales) ford/mercury - 88k (40%/59% of total 2007 projected sales) so the ford and mercury sell a lot more v6 models than the honda and within 5k of the almighty toyota. no need to comment - the numbers speak for themselves.
so the ford and mercury sell a lot more v6 models than the honda so my honda v6 is more rare than a ford/mercury. interesting. i don't base my decisions on what "most people" do.
shame on them! making money producing and selling cars - a novel concept, don't you think?. the toyota/lexus 2gr, especially with the direct injection (fse), imo, is unequivocably the best v6 available in this class and likely even in the world right now. i own one as i know you do - i guess time will tell us if it has the same sort of longevity/durability as the reigning king that great nissan vq - oops my slip is showing (again) got one of those as well! i eagerly also anticipate honda/acura's 'new' v6 - now there is a company that knows about everything than can be done with smaller displacement engines, and shouldn't be 'allowing' toyota too much time at the top.
hi guys how would you rate hyundai's handling? someone just told me that last gen toyota handles better than hyundai. is that true? i rented many hyundai and drove many toyota's but i couldn't honestly tell which cars handle better. if honda is 10 in terms of handling, is hyundai around 8ish?
there are a couple of simple answers to this - 1) cost - the hyundai, the v6 ford, and even the pushrod equipped v6 chevrolet will price at about the same dollars as the camcordima 4 bangers - getting a good 'discount' on any car up front becomes a badge of honor (and ego gratification) for most new car buyers who somehow seem to forget the back end implications (those dreaded residual values) of those lower initial prices. 2) fe - folks that buy vehicles in this class are generally more conservative types (none of these cars are 'sports cars') and are therefore more likely to put a much higher value on those extra mpgs.
the hyundai has quite a bit more body lean than the honda, but the brakes are a bit better than the sub-standard honda brakes :surprise: . steering feel is a toss up i think, but i drove them several months apart so i can't be sure. but i remember both feeling pretty positive. i liked the honda's seats a lot better though...the hyundai felt like i was sliding around too much in cornering. also felt the honda's seats were just more comfortable to my hamstrings. as for the toyota comparison, i can't say i've ever driven one...but all that i've read suggests the toyota is on the soft and wobbly side.
and the ford won a stragic visions award for its "inferior" interior.. :p
it is well known the ford has a 221hp v6, vs the 240 or 260 in the honda or toyota. it all looks good on paper. but if you look at the 0-60 numbers.. i really don't think the average car buyer is really going to notice 1 second.. ya think? they will however notice the $3,000 - $5,000 price difference however.. its up to the buyer if its worth it ... :shades:
"that's easy - something in the neighborhood of a several hundred thousand camcordima buyers " once again.. obviously you don't know the majority of cam/cords sold are 4cyl.. :surprise:
" however, i wouldn't mind to recommend ford to anyone that wants a "relatively" inexpensive midsize yet offers good quality fit-n'-finish and decent performance." forgot to add above average reliability and one heck of a value!.. no, really.. i have never claimed the ford/mercury to be the best vehicle around. i do however claim both of these vehicles deserve a look and a test drive and a serious consideration when shopping..
"i'm simply tired of people making negative statements without any basis in fact just because they don't like ford." me too.. can you tell??
if i had to choose between the toyota and honda, i would have to choose the honda. i just can't get over that frontend of the toyota.. its just plain weird looking.. once again.. opinion... before all the toyota owners come unglued...
i test drove both and i felt the hyundai would be a 9, toyota a 10...
really?! you'd put the toyota on the same handling level as the honda?
so, to paraphrase your answer - hp isn't important for the majority of midsize sedan buyers. exactly my point.
you'd put the toyota on the same handling level as the honda? i've owned both and their handling attributes are diametically opposite. the toyota has a looser, dampened suspension that provides minimal road feedback, but also isolates the driver from the road. the honda is a tighter set up. more of a go-cart feel. yea - you feel at lot more of the road but you also are more tuned in to the drive of the car. steering feels more direct too. the 4 cyl engine (awesome) seems to redline quicker than the toyota. i prefer the honda's attributes. maybe when i join aarp that'll change, but ya gotta hang on to those vestiges of youth.
i didn't say that all - but i will agree that unfortunately many buyers treat the v6 as a generic item in a midsize sedan - a serious mistake imo there are a few in this group that only meet the definition, and there are others that are really good sophisticated engines. a car enthusiast will know, understand and appreciate the differences, your 'majority of midsize sedan buyers' are really wanting only a good reliable appliance - there is nothing wrong with that. in my own case, i would enjoy a good 4 banger (honda's comes to mind) long before i could tolerate a dt or one of those gm pushrods. different strokes for different folks, but your inference seems to be that since the ford sells more v6s than honda it must somehow be better (or at least equal to) - a ludricrous stretch because there is simply no comparison in power, efficiency and/or refinement -it is only a function of how cheap the ford is relative to the honda. the hyundai is the one that is at least in the same neighborhood in that respect and they too sell far more v6s again as a function of how cheap they are. give me a choice between a hyundai and a ford, the hyundai gets my bucks - hyundai has been doing some good things lately.
but your inference seems to be that since the ford sells more v6s than honda it must somehow be better (or at least equal to) um, he can speak for himself, but what i thought he was saying was simply that there are a lot of people who don't care (or don't even know) that the ford's hp is less than the other two. now can we get off this merry-go-round? i'm getting dizzy.
no, the average buyer won't really notice that extra second or so - but he/she should notice how it feels and sounds getting there as well as the few bucks they likely save at the pumps, and they would also likely notice that the camcord is probably worth that same $3-5k more at trade-in time. more truth to the adage that 'you do get what you pay for (or don't pay for).'
i was referencing post 1935 actually.
"...but if you look at the 0-60 numbers.. i really don't think the average car buyer is really going to notice 1 second.. ya think?" if they won't notice that v-6 a is a second slower than v-6 b, they probly won't notice v-6 a is a second faster than 4-cyl b. so why bother with the v-6 at all? see how i didn't bash any brand. the whole hp numbers game just plays into the the marketing depts. they want you to care about hp so they can create a demand and hence more profit. look at a lotus elise. it will embarass most any car on the road - with a toyota 4-cylinder engine. hp is not all that matters.
look at a lotus elise. it will embarass most any car on the road - with a toyota 4-cylinder engine. you mean the midsize sedan called the lotus elise? actually a 4cyl s2000 will easily embarass a lotus elise. high hp while maintaining decent fuel economy is what most of these cars offer.
ford is definitely leading the engineering effort for awd. at least give them credit for that. i think subaru should get the nod for awd engineering in this class. ford is a little late to the party in comparison to subaru.
but to point, an s2000 engine in a honda honda would be "negatory" good buddy. the s2000 engine makes no torque, but has high revs. in the s2000 it's great, the same engine in the honda would be a disaster.
has anyone seen this article yet? definitely a gutsy move by saturn...
that sure is a lot of confidence. as you said, ghost, gutsy.
good for them. gm is really trying to reinvent itself bit by bit and climb out of the hole they are in. ford, otoh... i give for a decade before it's also sold off like chrysler was.
i give for a decade before it's also sold off like chrysler was. i fear that you may be correct but i hope that is not the case.
sounds like gm's version of the ford challenge. good for them. everything that's wrong with ford is being addressed by fields and mullaly. so far they've made the right decisions for ford's long term health. no reason to think they won't keep it up.
definitely a gutsy move by saturn... not really, considering a huge amount of the camcord's appeal is from its reputation as a long term pleaser, and the showroom can downplay or mute this trait.
to me, this seems like a huge risk. i would never consider an saturn over an honda or toyota. i recognize that this decision is not based on objective qualities, but on personal experience and bias. i am so biased that it would take either a giant price difference or some super-surprising features and possibly a much longer warranty to sway me. i cannot imagine changing my mind. perhaps they so strongly believe in their product that they think a side-by-side could make me consider the saturn? (just visiting, not hosting)
in my opinion this is an excellent move by saturn, and i suspect they will see some increase in sales as a result. this is light years ahead of the "ford challenge" because i beleive this will actually get some more people into saturn showrooms (heck, i have one a mile away that i've never been to, and i'm thinking about going just to check out the spectacle). you've got the fairly basic models of all three cars, comparable in *sticker* price (the one flaw is that saturn won't budge wheras the japanese usually will), and they can showcase all of the awards the saturn has. plus if they really do "pamper" the customers i'm thinking it will get some people all worked up. additionally, unlike the ford challenge, the people who get all excited during the test drives will actually be able to buy an saturn right then before the excited feeling wears off. i've never driven an saturn; i'll report my experience.
bingo! you hit the nail on the head and that is my thinking also. i am biased for a reason however, and am entitled to war those those biases proudly. unless someone wants to give me a car, i intend on keeping those biases. :surprise
gutsy, but not a surprise. one problem you have when your at the top, everybody is gunning for you. ford, nissan, gm, chrysler, hundai, ect are all tageting 2 vehicles. the honda and the toyota.
like people won't smell a setup here. they can do all sorts of things to the toyota and honda to make them seem less appealing. 1. loosen a few screws here and there to create some rattles. 2. disconnect an o2 sensor, so the check engine light comes on. 3. you can bet they won't be using the top of the line models. 4. whatever models they use will have drastically inflated stickers on the windows. the competitors have been shooting at the toyota and honda for 15 years or more now, and they will miss the target again with this obvious ploy.
1. loosen a few screws here and there to create some rattles. as much as i love my honda, i gotta say i think the factory does this for you :p
i bet they will be standard models. the idea is clearly one of "look, this car is 90% as good as these - it's a very small difference. but check out the prices - we're thousands less and have aggressive financing specials..." it's why lexus ate into mercedes sales. close to the same thing for a lot less money(well, at first... now lexus is silly money as well)
there is absolutely no way they will tamper with the honda or toyota. that is legal and marketing suicide. if you can get over the hype, and blind brand loyalty, there are reasonable alternatives to an honda and toyota. i should know, i own both a new toyota and a new hyundai, and honda/toyota fans probably don't want to hear my comments.
i own both a new toyota and a new hyundai, and honda/toyota fans probably don't want to hear my comments. the camcord fans might not want to hear your comments but this ford owner does. are you going to say the hyundai is better in some respects? is it a hyundai?
wouldn't it be funny if people visiting the saturn showrooms try to buy the toyota or honda. to be sure saturn (gm) has got to be buying the toyota and honda because toyota or honda certainly isn't going to "loan" them cars for purposes of the demonstration.
will probably just lease them. but it sounds like a decent idea to me. what have they got to loose? as someone else said, it will all be about price. i doubt many people will actually test drive the honda or toyota, this is just a way for the salespeople to put the two cars next to each other and say "does it realy look like its worth x thousands of dollars more?"
very interesting discussion on gm's honda/toyota tactic. as an aside, i've recently had the pleasure of renting a nissan [edit] 2.5s and driving a couple hundred miles in it, back and forth between nyc/nj/philly. first, let me say that this vehicle's glaring omission is its lack of standard abs. in a rainstorm yesterday, this becaming frighteningly apparent on the nj tpk as i had to jab the brakes quickly due to rubbernecking, and the front tires locked-up momentarily. as if a taco bell lunch needs further encouragement through my digestive system! crisis adverted, no drama ensued, but still.. it's practically the 2008 my, this vehicle costs $21k at msrp, and abs is minimally expensive nowawdays, so what gives, nissan? that aside, this car is fantastic. sure, i'm still not convinced by the fuzzy, cheap felt on the outer edges of the seats, but that's so easy to overlook given the interior's many other virtues, from a super-easy to use trip computer, to well placed dash vents and logical climate controls. and the base stereo is even pretty decent (though i like the toyota's trap door for the ipod better than the nissan's jack). additionally, seating is comfortable, passenger room copious, and steering wheel easily customizable for drivers of various shapes and sizes. finally, all buyers get the simple but totally trick intelligent key? sweet! where this car shines though is in its ultra-responsive and smooth (especially for a 4) powertrain. the cvt is worlds above those offered in dodge/mitsu products, and this 2.5l feels nothing if not 3.0+ litres in size. i've even gotten an indicated 25 mpg since rolling out of the enterprise parking lot, despite lots of sitting in traffic and, shall we say, liberal throttle applications when not. handling is as one would expect given nissan's pitch of the nissan; composed and engaging. kudos. seriously, pending crash scores, i can't imagine why this vehicle wouldn't be on the shopping list of buyers in this segment. this is, far and away, the 4 cylinder that i'd pick. make mine with abs and the convenience package, though (which really does add convenience, btw, as the power driver's seat likely cures some of the limited flexiblity between the standard seat's incline and slide detents) heck, i'd take this 4 over the v6 iterations of the hyundai and ford, too. i haven't driven the nissan v6, but it would be a tough call between this and the toyota se v6 or the honda v6s (due to their tremedous value right now and general competence despite age). if i wanted lux, i'd probably go toyota xle v6, though. imo, if nissan continues cranking out winners like this, shift 2.0 will be nothing short of phenomenal. (to bad the new nissan works to contradict this). my .02 ~alpha
renting a nissan 2.0s there is no nissan 2.0s
hey alpha, did you get a chance to drive last year's nissan? did the handling improve - particularly the steering feel and "boatish" feeling? i did like their v-6 a lot with more low end torque. but ingress and particularly egress was not too easy from what i remember... anyway, thanks for sharing.
there is no nissan 2.0s he did later in his review point out that the engine was 2.5l in size. probably a typo unless he actually drove a nissan 2.0s? :confuse:
and honda/toyota fans probably don't want to hear my comments. sure we do. this is just another "challenge", and will be as effective as the ford and hyundai challenges have been. are their sales increasing since they started the challenges? i don't think so. the way to increase sales of your own car, is to make a better car. talking bad about the other guy doesn't work.
probably a typo unless he actually drove a nissan 2.0s? i was thinking the same thing. the latest motor trend picked it second to the honda and ahead of the hyundai. looks good to me too.
this is, far and away, the 4 cylinder that i'd pick. nissan does build a nice 4 cyl, but i'd toyota to say the next incarnation of a four cylinder from honda in the 08 honda will not only easily match it, but also provide the overall honda fit and finish that closes most deals at a honda dealership.
are their sales increasing since they started the challenges? i don't think so. . so much misinformation. so little time. ford april 2007 sales press release: following the start of the successful &#147;ford challenge&#148; ads in january, the ford ford posted double-digit sales increases throughout the first quarter. ford sales for 1q07 when they ran the ads were up 33% over 1q06. 39,678 for 1q2007 vs. 29,845 for 1q2006. there goes that theory.
perhaps. but of the four cylinder midsizers one can go out and purchase today, i'd choose the nissan. ~alpha
"ford sales for 1q07 when they ran the ads were up 33% over 1q06. 39,678 for 1q2007 vs. 29,845 for 1q2006" does not form a correlation between the ads and ford sales, it merely states concurrent events. further were sales to consumers, and not to fleet? ford has been doing good with this in terms of the fulans, but i still have seen many at airport rental lots. finally, i found the ford challenge annoying because it didn't seem to be as apples to apples as possible. did ford not feel confident enough in fielding the fwd version of the ford? since all the bar graphs that ford chose to place in its ads had to do with either 1) styling or 2) performance, was ford uncomfortable in providing a toyota se with its different suspension settings? ~alpha
i don't think it's a risk at all. gm must do something to make buyers actually compare the saturn to the honda and toyota and show them how well the saturn stacks up. this is as good a way to do it as any. i expect what saturn is doing is pitting the saturn against like-priced toyota and honda. that would mean, for example, the v6 saturn vs. a relatively bare-bones honda/toyota i4. i have done just this sort of comparison at my local auto show, and imo the saturn looks very good in this kind of comparison. for example, it has large, nice-looking alloys vs. (probably) plastic covers on smaller wheels on the camcord. it has the v6 vs. the i4. it has a much classier looking exterior i think, and the interior compares well, at least to the extent someone would compare them on a showfloor. you also have other plusses with the saturn, including onstar and the hassle-free buying experience saturn offers (not to be overlooked for many buyers tired of what they have experienced or heard about shenanigans by honda and toyota salespeople). so i think it's a good move by gm--even if it means that honda and toyota just sold nearly 500 cars each in june. i'd like to see hyundai try this with, say, the hyundai fe, toyota, and honda, or maybe the hyundai, honda, and toyota. or more on topic, the hyundai, toyota, and honda. before the new honda comes out, preferably.
no-way, the honda will easily out handle a toyota..
"would also likely notice that the camcord is probably worth that same $3-5k more at trade-in time. more truth to the adage that 'you do get what you pay for (or don't pay for).' " better be worth 3-$5k more at trade in... you paid $3-5k more at purchase..
if you don't see the correlation then you just don't want to see it. even the dealers said the ads were bringing in more buyers. ford fleet sales are holding steady around 18% last time i checked. they are not dumping cars into rental fleets. instead they're slowing production to match demand instead of throwing huge amounts of cash on the hood. even the slow selling five hundred never got huge rebates like it would have in the past. the days of rental fleet dumping are over. having awd was the main point of the ford challenge - you can get an awd ford v6 for the same price or less than the fwd competition. if toyota wants to do their own test with a se model - go right ahead. but if they had used the se model then everyone would have complained that the ford was better equipped since it was a top of the line model.
"finally, i found the ford challenge annoying because it didn't seem to be as apples to apples as possible. " here we go again.. the fact is you can buy an awd ford sel v6 for the same price or less than a v6 camryxle or honda ex. read the comparison please. "comparable prices". the ford will still our perform a toyota se in the twisties. so i guess the honda/toyota having stability control standard has no merit?? :confuse: ford was a sponser only. ford funded the comparison. these were everyday people/consumers. not mag writers that have to make sure they keep the masses of readers happy or they will lose readers=revenue. that is what made this comparison an eye opener.
i just purchased a nissan 2.0. s + luxury package. it comes with abs, ebd, trip computer, heated mirrors, bluetooth, etc, etc, for a very decent price. i am getting 35 mpg on my horrible 40 mile, 1 hour and a half commute that has 50% stop and go. what is there not to like? (yeah i know, it's not very sporty, has a soft suspension but is very roomy and quiet).
today i was at the store and happened to be getting in my car when an amethyst (purplish/black) brand new ford sel v6 awd drove past me. the person driving was a woman about 30ish. i pulled up behind her and started a conversation about the ford. she was surprised i had mine for a year and was very interested how i felt after a years ownership.. nice color check it out on the web..
better be worth 3-$5k more at trade in... you paid $3-5k more at purchase oh it will. and the percentage of its original value the honda will keep is huge compared to a ford. you seem to forget about that part of the calculation.
im still wondering whopaid $5k more for an honda. mine was about $2k more than a comparable ford, and the numbers should have only come closer together since two years ago when i got the car.
percentages are for those who don't really understand numbers. as an extreme example (but the percentages apply :p ) : buy a car for $20k and turn it in for $12k (that's 60%) and it cost you $8k depreciation. buy a different car for $16k and turn it in for $10k (that's 56.25%) and it cost you $7k depreciation. the first car retained a higher % of it's original cost but cost $1k more in real dollars. do percentages pay your expenses or do you pay them with dollars? another example of percentages not being real: if you make $200 a week and get a 50% pay cut for a month, you'd get $100 per week. then the situation improves and you get a 100% pay increase, which restores you to the original $200 per week. the dollars are the same but the percentage minded people would be inclined to think you were better off with a 100% increase after suffering "only a 50% temporary cut."
nissan does build a nice 4 cyl, but i'd toyota to say the next incarnation of a four cylinder from honda in the 08 honda will not only easily match it, but also provide the overall honda fit and finish that closes most deals at a honda dealership. leadfoot: you keep talking like you've got some crystal ball or some inside contacts at honda! stop it! i like honda too, but i don't think everything they touch turns to gold... look at their stringtrimmers or even the honda or elementsc or acura or rl or lack of braking power on their honda. why don't we just talk about what we know and not what we hope we know.
"oh it will. and the percentage of its original value the honda will keep is huge compared to a ford. you seem to forget about that part of the calculation." have fun banking the percentage . my bank only works in dollars. seriously - adwriters must love us (colectively) consumers. they can use numbers/statistics that are at best irrelevant, or at worst misleading, but if they sound good we eat 'em up.
i'd look at real world private party sales and forgot the percentages. for example, in real dollars imo the honda will hold it's value better than the ford. meaning that after three years, the purchase price minus the sales price will be greater for an honda vs a ford. thus contributing to a lower cost of ownership over the time period.
but that's based on the fleet queen ford. huge incentives and rental fleet dumping is what hurts resale values and we have neither case with the ford. automotive lease guide puts estimated ford resale in between honda and toyota. honda will probably be slightly higher because of its reputation but i don't think the gap is as high as the honda fans think it will be.
better be worth 3-$5k more at trade in and if we make the assumption that it will be (while ford has had a checkered past in the residual value dept, we simply don't know yet about the ford - the camcords oth each have about 20 years or so of great residual values), then that camcord really only costs about $200.00/year to own than that ford - that $200.00 'average' interest you pay on an extra $4000.00 per year - keeping in mind that the principle difference will also narrow because your payments are obviously higher and that loan principle difference reduces with time. is it worth an extra $20/month to drive an honda let's say - that is buyers choice, but it is also a cost that you might also recover just in the fe differences. the honda actually a cheaper car than a ford, quite possibly - and i'm not the only one that thinks so - check out intellichoice and edmunds numbers. this logically the ultimate justification for those that go out and spend the extra money on a camcord - but also one with a very solid historically supported foundation. over the longer term, of course, that differential will always shrink in the cheaper car's favor and then we are all reduced to a bet of sorts - on the long term reliability and repair costs on one car vs the other, and again we can all point to 20 years or so of history versus a whole 2 as we all seek to make the best 'bet' we can. folks that point to initial purchase price can sometimes justifiably point to some great discounted and/or mfgr sponsored 'deal' they think they got, but the fact of the matter is that initial purchase price is only one of several components of what it truly costs to own a car. harp on the price differences all you want, but in all likelyhood, it means very, very, very, little
have fun banking the percentage. my bank only works in dollars. does your bank give you a range when they talk about a cost to you? do they say that fee is $3000-5000 dollars? have fun figuring that debit out on your statement. my point is that although you might pay more for the honda the accumulated depreciation on it when you sell it (expressed as a percentage that has been proven - not a number i made up) is less than that of any other sedan in this class. yes - i'll take that to the bank in actual, exact dollars and not in a firm possibility of a definite maybe.
actually there was an article in the fleet newsletter i get talking about how the cost to rent a car has been increasing due to the cut backs in fleet sales from the big 3. the autoline detroit guy said the residuals for gm cars went from the low 30s to mid 40s (and gm attributes that to fewer fleet sales and a better warranty program).
think about this for a second - while it is true that ford has avoided dumping the ford thru the fleet sales depts., resale value market perceptions will always largely be governed by what people think the the brand name as a whole. example - you are going out to buy your kid his/her first car, and you tell your neighbor that you bought an 6 year old camcord with 100k on it. he nods because he understands. tell him the same thing about a contour in the same condition and he wonders if you are crazy. the fact that the 1 and 2 year old rental fleet ford can be bought for 10-12k or that they are floating 6 grand+ on crown vics can do nothing but hurt a ford's resale values, simply because the ford/cv are cheapening the brand name as a whole. it is perhaps unfair, but for the last 10 or 15 years at least - toyota and honda are assummed reliable and valuable while the 'detroit' products are assummed 'suspect'. ford (and ford buyers) will have a long time to wait before this changes - even if the ford proves to be the most reliable and best car ever built.
we can all point to 20 years or so of history versus a whole 2 that assumes nothing has materially changed in recent years. based on history you wouldn't have predicted toyota's engine sludge or transmission problems or honda's transmission problems. you wouldn't have predicted the new toyota toyota 5.7l truck engine would have 20 confirmed camshaft failures within the first 6 months. at some point you have to stop relying solely on past performance and take current performance into account. things change.
i usually rent thru hertz or budget, would invariably end up with a 'vulcan' ford/mercury, or a pontiac pushrod - talk about irritating! then it seemed that hyundai were taking over, most were the v6s and not nearly so bad. hyundai apparently has also seen the light (as declining 'sales nos. would indicate) and now seems to understand that 'loss leaders' are exactly that and 'sales' for the sake of 'sales' is a losing proposition especially as they seek to recover from their own checkered past as well.
you have to stop relying solely on past performance and take current performance into account. things change. and you really really think that the car buyer is going to magically flock into ford dealerships just because the ford ford has shown to have some decent reliability stats for a whole 2 years? things do change - but it is also almost universally true that real change takes time. has ford all of a sudden changed its spots? perhaps.
don't assume the general buying public shares your disgust for ford and all ford products. they don't. and the ones that do are changing their minds based on the latest quality and safety awards. yes, it will take time but it's happening much more quickly than some folks want to admit.
and you really really think that the car buyer is going to magically flock into ford dealerships just because the ford ford has shown to have some decent reliability stats for a whole 2 years? yes. that plus the recent quality and safety awards. i read an interview with someone who bought an ford. she said she only visited the ford showroom after seeing ford's great performance in the latest jd power iqs ratings. before she saw that she simply would not have considered a ford product. i've also read about buyers who won't consider a toyota due to the engine sludge and transmission problems. i'd say the shoe is now firmly on the other foot. diehard toyota and honda fans won't be swayed but the average buyer will be.
honda/toyota having stability control standard has no merit?? actually if you understand what stability control does and how it works, the fact that the ford doesn't even offer it is a big advantage -to the ford , under those controlled and specific conditions that ford dictated the tests be conducted. remember that we are talking about how much 'fun' it is to fling a few sedans around a test track here - not how ultimately safe they are. we've been thru this before, but your 'challenge' remains about the biggest sham ever foisted on the car buying public. ford should be ashamed to think that it has to resort to such things.
"sounds like gm's version of the ford challenge. good for them." no way, ford challenge was a paid advertisment from ford, while this is a gutsy move aimed at buyers in dealerships, not passersby. gm is definitely on move, the product they have launched in the past year of so has been far, far improved from the past (gmt900s, saturns saturn-vue-sky, upcoming chevrolet, cts, acadia, upcoming pontiac) and i don't see why it won't be successful. ford on the other hand, well apart from the ford, there really is not much to talk about, i would have preferred if they had got some of the euro ford here, which are excellent vehicles, including the small/micro cars, which would have been a great move, seeing how gas prices are skyrocketing here.
example - you are going out to buy your kid his/her first car, and you tell your neighbor that you bought an 6 year old camcord with 100k on it. he nods because he understands. tell him the same thing about a contour in the same condition and he wonders if you are crazy. except you leave out that for the same money the camcord costs you can get two contours. and why do i care what someone else thinks, anyway. i actually did buy two used contours that became teenager cars after i had used them myself for a while. each had about 75k miles one was 5 years old the other 6. one cost $3800 the other $3100.
i have no 'disgust' for ford products and have said several times that i thought that both the ford and 500 were well designed vehicles - disgust? - that probably happens when i evaluate what's under the hoods and drive them and is only a personal importance that i assign to drivetrain sophistication how much do you think ford (or anybody else) pays the jd powers' of the world to use their name for promotional purposes, btw? or for that matter, how much r&t or c&d were paid for their 'participation' and name use in your ballyhooed challenge? those quality and safety awards you point to need to be earned and not necessarily bought. trust somebody like cr to come out with something that tells me that the ford has been the least troublesome car in its class for at least the last 5 years or so - then, i become a 'believer'.
additionally, seating is comfortable i guess it depends on who you are. i found the nissan's seats to be awful. too hard. too flat, and too low (despite the height adjustablity).
grad - i think you find that the bigger price disparities are found comparing v6 to v6, not the 4 cylinder models. the honda v6 premium being higher than the ford.
now you're insinuating that the jd power results are bought and paid for? this is now past the point of being ridiculous. time to move on.
which spec/trim of honda and toyota is gm/saturn putting in their showroom? does honda/toyota count those as sales
does honda/toyota count those as sales toyota and honda are not loaning the honda and toyota to saturn, they are not giving the cars to saturn, they are not trading the cars for saturns. the honda and toyota are being sold. sold = sale
and how exactly do you suppose that jd powers pays its bills? they don't exactly have the same sort of donation/consumer support base that cr does, for example. i think there is a strong possibility, the cynic that i am, that somebody over at jd (and i really don't mean to pick on them specifically) gets together with his staff and decides which company needs and more importantly would use their name most often for some favorable publicity. effectively predetermined results - just like the challenge. all about dollars, sure, as many things are. if you don't think that things like this happen, i feel sorry for you!
the honda and toyota models used in the saturn promotion can be found here: side-by-side looks like they used the msrp as the main ford. that makes it a v6 vs i4 comparison.
jd powers sells its research to the auto industry. the quality reports are only the tip of the iceberg. 99.99% of their data is never released to the public. it's used by the automakers (all of them) to track progress and identify areas for improvement. that's how they fund their research, not by selling results to the highest bidder. they get the same price for their work regardless of the results. you don't ever hear any of the automakers at the bottom of their results questioning either the results or the process. that should be enough proof by itself.
the honda and toyota models used in the saturn promotion can be found here are they gonna replace the 5 year old designed honda with a 2008 version when it arrives in 3 months?
are they gonna replace the 5 year old designed honda with a 2008 version when it arrives in 3 months? in 3 months the advertising campaign will be over. there will be no honda to replace.
oh my... when you look at the specification details on these comparison pages, toyota and honda fans will have a field day. for example, the v6 is standard for the saturn but "not available" for the toyota and honda. i guess that is true.... the v6 isn't available in the i4 models.
thanks for the post, tallman. very informative. just as i suspected, the saturn is a v6 (do they even offer a 4?) versus the i4 in both the toyota and honda. the comparison is definitely a gutsy move by gm. comparison doesn't indicate if all three of them have standard or automatic transmissions.
they would all have to be automatics because as far as i can tell, the xe model in the comparison doesn't come with a manual. i was playing around on the saturn website and it appears that the base model xe is what is used in the comparison (based on price). however, when i went to the "build your own" section, several option packages were pre-selected and i couldn't remove them. this added $2,725 to the msrp. anyone know anything about this?... it certainly can't be right.
saturn doesn't offer a 4-cyl for the xe or xr, only for the green line. i'm sure that automatics will be used for the comparison as well, considering that the saturn isn't available with a manual. as far as the website goes, i was able to build a bare-bones xe with no options, for the price of $20,995.
as far as the website goes, i was able to build a bare-bones xe with no options, for the price of $20,995. maybe it's my safari browser then... i couldn't get those check marks on the packages that were pre-selected turned off. i feel better knowing that you were able to do it. :shades:
ah... figured it out. their default interior is leather and i was just clicking away not choosing cloth. leather requires those other packages.
you miss the point...a 4 cylinder is the standard engine in both the honda and the toyota. while a v-6 is available it is an option. on the saturn it is standard and for the price a "plus" for many people and for the sake of this comparison i guess. i won't lie, i have found the 4 cylinder engines on both the toyota (rented) and the hyundai (also rented) to be perfectly adequate...in a rented vehicle but when i am shelling out my own $$$ i want a v-6. this may be a vestige of my automotive formative years (the 60's and 70's) when bigger/more hp was better in all circumstances.
living in a closet? you really think that 99.99% of their income comes from these industry studies or that the cost of showing that picture of a trophy in an ad comes cheap? cr publishes exactly where their money comes from and how they use it and is non-profit, so how do you know anything is 99.99% of anything at jdp! a link would be appreciated. objectivity is not something i question with something like cr although i don't agree with their priorities a lot of times, simply for the fact that no money changes hands. anybody that is in it for that money - that would be a different story, don't you think? last year's favorite over there at jdp was hyundai if i remember correctly (another mfgr. in need of an image remake), and honda/toyota would not likely find any real benefit to advertising something that most folks already know and expect. cr currently rates the honda and the nissan tops in this category overall with the fulans in the middle of the pack - and does not allow either honda or nissan to advertise that fact - amazing how that works is it?
cost to run a brand new domestic vehicle 65k miles = almost 5,000 dollars in repairs (not maintenance) and tow trucks (4 of them) outside of warranty. cost to run a new honda 65k miles = $0.00 outside of maintenance and gas. zero tow trucks. cost to run a new audi to 19k miles = $0.00 outside of gas. (granted, its still under warranty and maintenance is covered to 50k or 4 years). cost to run 1992 honda purchased in 2002, kept for a bit over two years, bought at 166k miles; taken to 200k miles, bought for 3,500 + tax, sold for $2,700, repairs = $1,000 which included new brakes, rotars, ect. so before i turn 30, i have about 115k miles of personal experience (including my wife's with the 92 honda honda) with foreign cars... total repair cost 1k. i have 65k with a domestic... total repair cost $5k. throw in the wife's 25k on a 2005 honda, and 4k on a 2007 honda, and now you have 29k more miles at $0.00 repair cost. ('05 got totalled by some idiot). you do the math!
that the '05 honda recovered about 94% of its value in the not at fault accident that got it totalled. insurance paid handsomely. if it was an '05 domestic... would of been lucky to get 50%? the old domestic got peanuts on trade-in at 65k miles... thereby adding insult to injury to the 5,000 dollars in repair costs; might as well have bought a rr with repair bills like that!
you miss the point...a 4 cylinder is the standard engine in both the honda and the toyota. while a v-6 is available it is an option. i didn't miss the point. i just got a chuckle out of saturn saying the v6 is "not available" in the toyota and honda but, as you stated, it is indeed an option... or available in another trimline. interestingly enough, saturn's only available 4 cyl. greenline is more expensive than their v6 xe base model. saturn chose to compare their xe model, which is their cheapest, to a mid-range trimline in the toyota and honda. to be honest, i'm not sure what models they are comparing to because they list two different prices on the saturn pages. my best guess is that the honda is the se and the toyota is the le with some options.
that kind of cross referencing trickery happens often with gm... i stated this in another forum.
heh-heh... that's advertising. can't say as i blame them but i have heard wonderful things about the saturn. my favorite part is the dimensions tab. saturn uses a red asterisk to denote "saturn advantage". front head room, for example, is listed as: *saturn: 39.4 toyota: 38.8 honda: 40.4 saturn advantage! there are several more just like that on the tab.
so they assume people aren't smart enough to see which number is advantageous?
oh i don't mind them pointing out the advantages, i just don't understand how being in the middle is an advantage.
yeah it is rather amusing - how about the relative fe ratings, if you are going to trumpet the extra hp of that v6 and then conveniently 'forget' to mention the several mpgs it's costing in these days of $3/gallon gas. imo though, a helluva car with the 3.6, the xr probably more directly competitive to the v6 versions of the camcord. but, then again, maybe that 'saturn advantage' might just disappear. as you say, that's advertising!
there is absolutely no evidence from anyone anywhere to suggest that jd power's quality ratings are up for sale or that they're influenced by the mfrs in any way. why would the auto mfrs buy their research data if it's not accurate?
why would the auto mfrs buy their research data if it's not accurate? so they can put jd survey in their ads, and impress people who are swayed by that type of thing. just about any car has won an award of some type. some car companies will give themselves an award. seems kind of interesting to me that most of the cars who proudly display jd power results in their ads are cars that don't do well in other tests and comparisons (desperate types). i buy the car i want. not the car some magazine, survey, or media says is the right car. the media doesn't know what i like.
i have already shown who paid $5k more for a toyota.. go to the mercury vs toyota room and scroll back. in this room you will find a person paid $5k more for a like optioned toyota vs a mercury premier v6.. i have told you this time after time..
some also don't understand financing. never has honda or toyota offer 0%, and very rarely 2.9%.. financing costs also must be included in the price of the vehicle. :surprise:
kind of funny, resale value has only true meaning when you can actually find someone to buy the car for the higher price. i have first hand experience with this with my wifes 2000 honda chrysler 4cyl automatic.. resale.. :p right..
i don't know about your previous discussion but thegrad's post you are replying to talks about $5k more for an honda, not a toyota. i'm sure with at least one savvy shopper and one oblivious shopper, you could find someone, somewhere who paid $5k more for a ford than an honda or toyota.
"it is perhaps unfair, but for the last 10 or 15 years at least - toyota and honda are assummed reliable and valuable while the 'detroit' products are assummed 'suspect'. ford (and ford buyers) will have a long time to wait before this changes - even if the ford proves to be the most reliable and best car ever built. " once again, this may hold true for those who don't do thier homework.. as i have said.. go to msn reliability data and compare an 03 ford to an 03 honda.. surprise! :surprise: although you'll get those who swear up and down ford are unreliable and civics are completly reliable. for my daughters first car it will be a ford.. i'm not spending the extra $$ for perception and buying a honda..i'll be saving thousands over a honda.
"but your 'challenge' remains about the biggest sham ever foisted on the car buying public. ford should be ashamed to think that it has to resort to such things." sham, in your anti-ford mind. these were comparable vehicles. these people were in no way paid by ford, nor were they ford employees. this is what makes the test so interesting.
i have already shown who paid $5k more for a toyota.. go to the mercury vs toyota room and scroll back. in this room you will find a person paid $5k more for a like optioned toyota vs a mercury premier v6.. i have told you this time after time this is silly. there's a sucker born every minute bro. i'm sure grad can find you an anecdote about someone paying msrp for their mercury. not sure why you feel compelled to foist this $5000 price difference on us. the $2000 extra you pay for an honda is recovered when you sell it also. we have no idea what a ford's percentage of its purchase price can be expected back at resale. a total unknown. honda buyers known about the car's resale history. plus accordians get a better car in the process.
"no way, ford challenge was a paid advertisment from ford, while this is a gutsy move aimed at buyers in dealerships, not passersby. " wrong again.. it was sponsered by ford. these people were not ford employees, nor were they paid by ford. please, read the whole challenge before spreading misinformation.
these people were in no way paid by ford, nor were they ford employees. how in the world could you possibly know this? you don't. and we know you don't. even if honda did this kind of 'challenge' i'd take it with a grain of salt. but ....they don't have to resort to this ploy.
so, now jd powers is being bought by ford?? :sick: i would be willing to be if it were toyota or honda in the spotlight at jd powers it would be completly believable right? bias runs rampant in this room
"oh my... when you look at the specification details on these comparison pages, toyota and honda fans will have a field day. for example, the v6 is standard for the saturn but "not available" for the toyota and honda. i guess that is true.... the v6 isn't available in the i4 models. " ever thought an i4 toyota/honda like optioned costs as much as a v6 saturn like optioned? then it would be a fair comparison. showing the consumer that the toyota/honda are just plain over priced..
"i'm sure with at least one savvy shopper and one oblivious shopper, you could find someone, somewhere who paid $5k more for a ford than an honda or toyota." actually.. a guy at work just bought an 07 toyota se i4 automatic.. price - $25,500!! he thought this was a great price at that!. i'll wait a few days to pop his bubble..
bro??.. i'm not even going to respond to this person..
these people were in no way paid by ford, nor were they ford employees. "how in the world could you possibly know this? you don't. and we know you don't." how do you know they were then? read the challenge will you?? or are you to afraid of the truth?
let me know when you get to my post that states the 4cyl saturn costs more than their v6. we all know that honda and toyota cost more. however, since auras are no dicker and the camcords aren't, cost is hard to compare in this case.
ever thought an i4 toyota/honda like optioned costs as much as a v6 saturn like optioned? then it would be a fair comparison. showing the consumer that the toyota/honda are just plain over priced.. well to be perfectly honest with you, the v6 in question is a pushrod design (dated) and gets thrashy and unrefined when pushed. so just to say that the camcords are overpriced on engine alone is not true. i would assume the i4 engines cost just as much or more to engineer as the saturn v6 (3.5l).
i'm not going to get into this again but some of us did read the challenge. we also read the comments by those who actually were there... and some of the ad publications, etc. i don't have the links but i read a lot about it a few months ago. it was an ad campaign.
a mazda! ok, maybe this is a creative interpretation, but i really do have 8 seats in my car in the pic below. just that 3 of them happen to be office chairs. try doing that in a sedan! actually, try getting just 1 of these assembled chairs into a sedan (2 of the chairs pictured are fully assembled, one just had the back removed). gotta love hatchbacks!
"wrong again.. it was sponsered by ford. these people were not ford employees, nor were they paid by ford. please, read the whole challenge before spreading misinformation." scape, i don't spread misinformation - you do, all the time, every time. please go back and read and re-read the ford challenge; if you need english comprehension classes, let me know and i will set you up with a tutor. it was a ford paid event that is used as an advertisment in all publications it features in, its not published as an article by those publications (do you know the difference? let me explain; an article is what a publication puts out as its or the writer's opinion based on tests they run, and advertisment is a paid write-up that the publication prints so that it can pay its bills and keep printing quality/core articles) you may want to spin it any way you want, but it was not a comparison test; just a way ford invented to 'win' since none of the known publications picked the ford as a first place finisher in actual comparos. pure marketing, and i don;t fault them for it, but to tout it as a comparison - that takes the cake. i thought we had been through this, but you just keep spreading misinformation and misleading people by your deliberately false posts and then calling other people biased. the saturn move is a true gutsy move, gm is targeting buyers with samples of honda and toyota in their dealerships, not passersby. these people could as well pick the honda/toyota after driving all 3, so to me it reeks great confidence by gm in its product, the saturn.
i am not denying it was an ad campaign, nor am i denying that ford motor company sponsered this event. however, you have to find it kind of interesting that even though ford sponsered the event, car and driver hosted the event, that none of these people were paid by ford to say these things, nor were they paid by ford to vote a certain way. car and driver was there as a host, a neutral party. these were everday consumers, not media, not "experts". are you saying ford somehow coerced these people into voting a certain way? or saying these things? with the reputation of car and driver on the line and ford on the line.. i highly doubt it. don't you think one or more of these people would have gone the news if they were held at gun point to vote a certain way? :shades:
"you may want to spin it any way you want, but it was not a comparison test; just a way ford invented to 'win' since none of the known publications picked the ford as a first place finisher in actual comparos. pure marketing, and i don;t fault them for it, but to tout it as a comparison - that takes the cake." how did ford "invent the ford to win" in this comparison? please explain. car and driver was there as a neutral party.. are you saying car and driver was also in on this? if anything this is mud on car and drivers face because the public, consumers actually picked something different than what their "experts" actually picked... ya think?.
i have already shown who paid $5k more for a toyota.. go to the mercury vs toyota room and scroll back. in this room you will find a person paid $5k more for a like optioned toyota vs a mercury premier v6.. i have told you this time after time .. you don't have to chastise me scape. the post i replied to spoke of the honda, not the toyota.
showing the consumer that the toyota/honda are just plain over priced.. if that were the case, there wouldn't be 800,000 honda and toyota sold this year. there's more to a car than a spec sheet.
manual a/c, cloth seats. it appears to be something along the lines of an chrysler honda, possibly ex 4-cyl. nice to see a manual tranny!
are you saying ford somehow coerced these people into voting a certain way? i told you i'm not getting into this again. i read more than just the comparison.
try doing that in a sedan! actually, try getting just 1 of these assembled chairs into a sedan (2 of the chairs pictured are fully assembled, one just had the back removed). gotta love hatchbacks! why would i wanna do that when i can easily just put them into my minivan and still seat 5 people. who puts all this junk in their car anyway? get a truck. plus with hatchbacks, you get to have all the stuff you'd normally have in the trunk and out of the way, right there in the car with you. no isolation. no thanks. nice photo anyway.
"never has honda or toyota offer 0%" flat out wrong. i paid x dollars for a toyota. with 0% financing the otd cost was x dollars financed, with my payment being x/36.
car and driver was there as a host, a neutral party. these were everday consumers, not media, not "experts". are you saying ford somehow coerced these people into voting a certain way? or saying these things? its amazing to see you just accept what ford purports as the truth without a hint of doubt. again i'd be skeptical if honda did the same thing, altho they don't need to arrange that kind of stunt. kinda like 4 out of 5 doctors prefer x. sure. when you finally find the 4 out of 5, you can stop your experiment and make your assertion as being true.
i post real data and all you guys can do is dream up conspiracy theories and ridiculous jd power bribes which can never be proven. how convenient. i guess ford sabotaged all the toyota engines and transmissions, too.
why would i wanna do that when i can easily just put them into my minivan and still seat 5 people. who puts all this junk in their car anyway? get a truck. well that's the point... with a hatchback, most of the time i don't need a truck. and since i don't want to pay for a truck nor the insurance for it, i don't have a place to put one, and wouldn't want to drive one unless i absolutely had to, it's great having a value added feature that helps me get more out of a midsize car than those who only have 4 doors and a trunk. to me, given that a hatch can look as good if not better than a sedan, it seems to me that the design of a sedan wastes a lot of space. besides, this was not a planned pick up of these chairs. i was running through the office, and noticed all the office people with new chairs and these 3 month old ones sitting in the warehouse. if i didn't grab them then, they'd be gone. i'll post em on craiglist, make a quick $150, and that's that. but if i drove a sedan, these chairs would be in a dumpster or someone else would have sold them. plus with hatchbacks, you get to have all the stuff you'd normally have in the trunk and out of the way, right there in the car with you. no isolation. no thanks. you must be one of the sopranos... no worries for me; no smelly dead bodies in my trunk. either that or you keep too many things in your car. i'd hate to hear what it sounds like when you have to brake suddenly!
"some also don't understand financing. never has honda or toyota offer 0%, and very rarely 2.9%.. financing costs also must be included in the price of the vehicle" it has been my experience that vehicles with 0% financing incentives take a hit in resale value that is equal to or even greater than the savings in finance charges. think about it, if they have to use heavy incentives to sell a vehicle when new (i'm talking both about big customer cash rebates and 0% financing deals) then the car isn't likely to be in huge demand on the used market, either.
re 2060 good show.. yep, hatchbacks are great. just wish there were more of them available. seems like them and the station wagon have almost been replaced with suv's or whatever the latest name is for them. i am hoping they make their return soon. i think they definitely fill a need for the average family, without having to buy or rent other vehicles from time to time. van
i agree that hatchbacks have great utility, but i don't like having all the contents of my trunk now in my car. a sudden stop and you've got your volkswagen clubs etc. in the back seat. bags of mulch, pine straw, sandy beach towels - nice to have all that stuff stashed away in a trunk.
i didn't say that at all - another case of you jumping to conclusions. what i said was that jd powers like some of these other survey companies, are indeed profit making organizations and do receive a fee for use of their name in advertising ventures - so therefore, any award that any mfgr. gets should be deemed suspect. so let's look at the situation as it exists today or it did a little while back when hyundai 'garnered' a few of these awards, the mfgrs. that certainly need to tout their improved reliabilities etc. invariably end up receiving these awards and the ones that don't (and yes, honda and toyota would be good examples) don't. amazing the way that works, isn't it? money has power, doesn't it? as i said earlier, as soon as your ford starts winning anything from some organization that is not in it for the money, and statistically shows a long term improvement in the reliability, improves what they put under the hoods - then i take notice. all i can do is try to turn the lights on in your closet, though, i can't get you out of it. as far as your touted challenge goes, anything that is 'sponsored' or 'staged' by anybody that would stand to gain by the result is the most obvious opportunity to abuse what otherwise must be true. this kind of thing happens in a lot more than just car tests. give me a properly selected population sample (probably out of the orient) and i can find a whole bunch of 2 pack/day cigarette smokers that happened to all live into their 80s or 90s, thereby 'proving' my contention (i do, after all, work for the american tobacco institute) that smoking increases life spans, this after i conveniently ignore the fact that the marlboro man died of lung cancer a while back. ridiculous enough? how about if i worked for ford and needed to come up with something that i could use to promote our new ford? well, maybe the first thing i might do is go grab 'a random group' of folks that have been 'ford families' for years, as you apparently are, wine and dine them, get them appropriate exposure to a good salesman, and then pick three cars that by any definition aren't equal and compare them under specific tests and conditions that are designed to accentuate the virtues of one vs. the others, while again conveniently ignoring those tests that don't. ford (or anybody else) is not going to spend the money for a comparison like this without knowing what the results are at least likely to be. how far they actually went to insure it, beyond the specific models and test types selected, you and i both don't know. in any case, results of any sort of 'sponsored' event should be given zero creedence. and that would include 'comparisons' run by honda and toyota, if and when, they are reduced to such tactics.
i think i responded to this months back, but a distant friend of the family got a '07 toyota se i-4 automatic early this year for $21,100 (not including tax). he was really happy with the price he paid, and said it was close to invoice. i don't know the details though, but one person is not a real good sample!!! getting back to the topic, i do know that he stated he and his wife looked at a "lot" of different cars in this class and liked the toyota best, fwiw.
not an issue. most (if not all) hatches have a hard divider (like a parcel shelf) that divides the trunk area from the passenger area when the hatch is closed, and opens up with the hatch. it effectively seals off the trunk area, but is removable for the larger items. the ol' hatchback isn't what it used to be. it's more of a car with a proper trunk these days, but with a larger cargo capacity and much-larger (and easier, imo) access.
good post, captain... what i would like to find out more about the "ford ford challenge" are: 1. what kind of car do those 500 people currently own. what's their history of buying cars. 2. what are their choices before the test 3. what are their choices after the test 4. what type of test track did ford set up? is it awd-biased? 5. is the 0-60, 40-70, and 1/4-mile tests included? if not, why? 6. i know ford used v6 toyota and honda but are they the loaded version? i know the awd ford that ford used was a loaded one. before those information are being released, this "ford ford challenge" is bathroom, toilet-side entertainment at best...
6. i know ford used v6 toyota and honda but are they the loaded version? i know the awd ford that ford used was a loaded one. honda don't have options, they only have models. vp,chrysler,se,ex,honda,honda-nav, chrysler-v6,se-v6,ex-v6,ex-v6-nav,ex-v6-6spd since it was a v6 auto, it is an lxv6,sev6, or exv6. i think the difference is sunroof or not, and a few minor things people are unlikely to notice in that type of exposure. the equipment seems pretty comparable. i am not as familiar with toyota's models and packages.
lousiwei, you are wasting your time with this; everyone knows (including scape deep inside) that this was an advertisment campaign, not a comparison test. ford also calls it an avdt campaign that has worked for them, so its difficult to understand how scape calls it a credible comparison. since it is an advertisment, why would ford include any parameters that the ford was not at the top in? you want comparisons, look for publications that do this for a living or look at real people buying these cars. cd and rt did not validate this advertisment as their opinion (as they wouldn't with any advertisment in their mags)....cd and rt have a lot of advertisments in their magazines, does that mean each of the advertisments is blessed as an opinion by them?
good post, captain. again, the biggest problems with the ford challenge (besides not being an objective comparison test) is that the questions were very limited in scope, and the survey respondants were not voting with their check books. why didn't they include questions on perceived quality? toyota? brand reputation / past experiences with the brand? of course, they limited the survey to the questions they could win (handling with awd and styling). the ford is a better handling car than the honda. i also think it is an attractive car. if i had participated in the ford challenge, i probably would have voted the same way most of the other participants did. however, ask those same participants to evaluate the cars on all of aspects, and choose which one they would buy for themselves, and suddenly the outcome changes.
you want comparisons, look for publications that do this for a living or look at real people buying these cars. here's the problem - name one publication that will take several hundred average everyday buyers and do this type of comparison test. they won't. it cost too much. so all we ever get are opinions from automotive journalists who all have their own individual biases and performance data that the average buyer could usually care less about. show me a published comparison test done by a third party that involved hundreds of average, everyday drivers. never happened - never will. the only point that should be taken from the ford challenge is that the ford is competitive with the camcords when compared head to head by average, everday buyers. the publicity around the iqs awards should get more people to actually look at the ford and other ford instead of blindly crossing them off the list. we'll see if that translates to a sales increase.
don't matter to me. this vehicle will be kept until it falls apart.
"here's the problem - name one publication that will take several hundred average everyday buyers and do this type of comparison test. they won't. it cost too much. so all we ever get are opinions from automotive journalists who all have their own individual biases and performance data that the average buyer could usually care less about. show me a published comparison test done by a third party that involved hundreds of average, everyday drivers. never happened - never will." why should we assume that the passersby in the advertisment are unbiased folks? you want to talk about hundreds of drivers, well just look at the real byuers - more than 800k per year vote with their wallet for the camcords, isn't that saying something? on the ford, i have never debated that it is not competitive with the camcords ot other midsize cars
financing only matters in the price of the vehicle if you are financing it. there is no law saying you can't just pay the whole thing off at once. if you bought a honda instead of a chevrolet, you might actually have the resale value to pull something like that off!
the only point that should be taken from the ford challenge is that the ford is competitive with the camcords when compared head to head by average, everday buyers akirby - what i doubt, in effect, is that these were 'real' people (or everyday buyers in your words) in the sense that they weren't 'pre-qualified' by ford in the first place. if it was me establishing the 'rules of engagement', i would sure as hell make sure that was the case. and no, i don't know either way this happened but nor does anybody else, so therefore those 'real' people and their opinions must be taken with a small grain of salt. in terms of available information of real consumer preferences? well, we do have something about 7 camcord buyers for every 1 ford buyer, don't we? as far as 'crossing any of these cars' off the list, probably not a good idea when any buyer is spending 20 grand or more of his/her hard earned money!
why didn't they include questions on perceived quality? toyota? brand reputation / past experiences with the brand? of course, they limited the survey to the questions they could win (handling with awd and styling). i think they did actually. this should answer your questions and those by others regarding the ford and saturn challenges going on now.
msn reliability data is about as reliable as an emailed offer for winning $1,000,000 for filling out a short survey that will only take 3 minutes! msn reliability data also claims the dodge neon to be reliable, but everyone that has owned one or known someone that owned one knows otherwise!
the ford challenge was indeed paid for, sponsored, concocted, conceived, and advertised by ford! if that doesn't tell you it was rigged i don't know what does!!! i don't care what ford writes about the challenge. don't believe everything you read! consider the source!
msn reliability data also claims the dodge neon to be unreliable, but everyone that has owned one or known someone that owned one knows otherwise! my experience is counter to that point.
with the reputation of car and driver on the line and ford on the line.. what reputation does ford have? car and driver might have a small reputation and following as a magazine. but, ford? they have a bad reputation at best.
i wrote unreliable instead of reliable.... so does that mean you agree with me the dodge neon was never reliable, thereby making msn seem foolish?
msn reliability data also claims the dodge neon to be unreliable, but everyone that has owned one or known someone that owned one knows otherwise! very true. my wife's car is a good example. she has a 2000 dodge neon. she bought it new, and drives it over 17k miles per year. it has close to 108k miles on it now, and has been rock-solid reliable. besides a dead battery, it's always started. it's burned out a foglight and tail light, and it's on it's third set of tires, but other than regular maintenance, and a new set of brake pads and rotors, it's been nearly flawless. the only problem is that her struts in back are shot, and need to be replaced, but since she wants a new car this summer, she's perfectly content on driving on bad struts until then.
but we're now veering quite a bit off-topic, and c'mon... let's let the shroud remain wrapped 'round the mystery of the validity of the ford challenge. no one in here knows , and i think we've exhausted that topic, if not other members there are quite a few models mentioned in the discussion header. any chance we can inject some new info/comparisons rather than staying on the ford/camcord merry-go-round? all the cool kids are doin' it...
i agree that hatchbacks have great utility, but i don't like having all the contents of my trunk now in my car. a sudden stop and you've got your volkswagen clubs etc. in the back seat. as long as i keep the back seats up and don't pile things up beyond the height of these seats, nothing is flying anywhere. when i had to take my mower to get serviced, the mazda has some tie down loops in the cargo area to make sure things weren't rolling around. plus they have an collapsable organizer that has smaller compartments to keep little things like groceries in its place. take a look at the pic at the bottom. bags of mulch, pine straw, sandy beach towels - nice to have all that stuff stashed away in a trunk. i always make sure i keep plastic bags in my car so that i'm not making a mess. and even if i had to put something big and dirty back there, i got the cargo mat with raised lips which comes out very easily so i could rinse it off. having all this utility that was well thought out was a great bonus to me over just having a fun and comfortable vehicle... seems mazda really thought through how a bigger space could be used and how to make it more efficient.
interesting article baggs. however, i didn't read in it more information about the design or methodology of the surveys. if they did collect and analyze more data, i never saw it published or advertised. the survey results i saw from ford were short and overly simple. "did you like the handling (or styling, or driving feel, etc.) - yes or no?" ford admitted in the article you referenced that they discovered that people drove the ford and liked those attributes (handling, styling, etc), but still bought something else. so why would they ford only on those attributes? why emphasize those in the ford challenge advertising? winning those attributes alone aren't enough to overcome honda and toyota. they need to find out why people appreciate those attributes in the ford but still keep shopping (as i did). my guess is, if they did collect data on perceived quality and brand experience, they didn't like what they saw. ford may be on the right track with the recent quality improvements- however, whether that will translate into better long-term reliability and higher future resale values remains to be seen.
i have found a lot of utility in having a class 1 or class 2 hitch installed on my vehicles. this has served me very well. the overwhelming majority of the time, if there is something connected, its a hitch mounted bike rack, and almost any car in this class will have no problems towing a 5x8 uhaul trailer or similar. i am a big fan of second hand furniture (i can't bring myself to drop $2k on contact-paper/veneer over pressboard when i can buy older real wood furniture for much less) and because most private sellers don't have a delivery service, i usually end up with a small utility trailer behind one of the cars. the subie can tow 2700#s, and that towing capacity is more than the payload capacity of many suvs, and when i am not towing, i get 30mpg.
my guess is, if they did collect data on perceived quality and brand experience, they didn't like what they saw. i think that is exactly what the opening paragraph tells us. it's pretty obvious why they would not want to publish such data in an ad. however, i didn't read in it more information about the design or methodology of the surveys. i doubt the surveys were too complex. probably 10-20 questions asking the basics. anyone who looks at their published results in the ads, mainly the bar graphs, will notice that the ford didn't beat the honda by much in the three categories they tout. therefore i wonder if those are the only three categories it did win in. perceived quality and reliability surely lost based on that article and i'd be curious to know what other questions they asked and what the results were. i'm a ford guy and always have been so they don't need to convince me that their vehicles are competitive. but ads like the ford challenge and whatever they come up with for the latest iqs awards will certainly change some minds and if nothing else, plant a seed. they still need to provide water and sunlight for that seed to really change people's perceptions though.
this should answer your questions and those by others regarding the ford and saturn challenges going on now. that link, baggs32, was a very informative news story. we've owned our 2007 sel awd v6 ford for about six months and have never been invited to participate in any survey. we are extremely satisfied with our purchase. the car has had zero problems, not so much as a single squeak or rattle. the fit and finish are perfect. our only complaint is in-honda gasoline mileage but even that is now approaching the revised epa estimate of 17 mpg honda. it's pretty obvious that this a forum dominated by camcord supporters and that is ok, too. a difference of opinion makes the world go 'round. toyota and honda are no. 1 and no. 2 in sales in the mid-size market but that does not mean that the new ford and new saturn are not worthy competitors. they certainly are, in my book. i think fomoco and gm are wise to adopt hood-to-hood advertising methods because smart mid-size sedan buyers should be well-informed before they make a choice.
why would i get an underpowered ford when i can get a more powerful and economical 5 year old designed honda? furthermore, in about 5 more months the 2008 honda will blow by all of its competitors.
i thought we were supposed to stop the ford bashing and honda cheerleading.
and the honda bashing & ford cheerleading. let's leave all of it for now, please, and move on to some other topic of conversation.
an saturn for 24 hours by myself to take it on a serious test-drive?
>an saturn for 24 hours by myself to take it on a serious test-drive? you might try renting one from the various rental companies.
man that's a big area. can't wait for my mazda hatch to be made. now it turns out build date won't be until july. not that i'm surprised by delay! anyway hopefully in august i'll get the car.
we are extremely satisfied with our purchase. wow - that buyer's remorse from a day ago has disappeared?
wow - that buyer's remorse from a day ago has disappeared? did i really say that we had buyer's remorse? actually, in a way, i do wish we had bought an i4 ford instead of the v6 with awd, since we don't "need" either but the car is indeed very satisfying. our only "complaint" has been the in-honda mileage, but that is gradually improving and we only have 3,400 miles on the car.
financing only matters in the price of the vehicle if you are financing it. if it is discounted a lot, it can still matter to the (would be) cash buyer (such as myself). when i compared prices, if there was 0% financing that had a value equal to what i would earn in a tax exempt money market fund by taking the loan, rather than paying cash. currently if i were buying a $20,000 car, 0% for 36 months would be worth maybe around $1200.
and in my case (don't know if it's still the case now), mazda gave me an extra $1000 rebate to finance through them. i did not get a great rate (7+%) but i paid off my car in a few months w/ other lower interest loans. so sometimes financing makes more financial sense than not.
furthermore, in about 5 more months the 2008 honda will blow by all of its competitors just like somebody else might make a statement like the 08 ford that is presumed to have the new dt 3.5 will blow off all its competitors - how do you know what honda is going to do? i have yet to see anything but some car show pictures and nothing in terms of engine specs, fe ratings etc.. a logical assumption, i think, that the new honda will at least have to get up into the 270hp territory to match the toyota and nissan, anything much more than that may create a little torque steer overkill much like the tl-s. how could the new honda 'blow away' the competition? how about a 170hp+, 350 lb. ft. high tech clean diesel that gets 30+ mpg epa combined? they would have an instant 6 month waiting list and probably be able to price it honda-ingly (pun intended)!
just like somebody else might make a statement like the 08 ford that is presumed to have the new dt 3.5 will blow off all its competitors - captain2, according to what i have read, the 2008 ford will not have the new 3.5-liter v6. fomoco is sticking with the tried and true 3.0 liter v6 in the 2008 ford.
i know that honda will blow the doors off of the competition because that is exactly what they did in the fall/winter of 2002 when they introduced the 2003 model honda. lightyears ahead of the competition at the time. i chose the chrysler v6 because you get all the goodies except leather and a sunroof.
yes, i'd have paid cash but took mazda's $1000 for getting a loan i did not need. i paid mine off after three weeks. i paid about $60 in interest and a $4 lien filing fee...so it was actually a $936 rebate for me .
i do wish we had bought an i4 ford instead of the v6 with awd i'd rather have the v6 in the ford vs. the 4. i know the gas mileage isn't the best but i'm sure you'll get more quality miles on the v6, in better toyota, road security, toyota, on demand power, and resale.
here's a few reasons to choose a ford over the honda... the steering on the ford is quicker and has more feel in comparison to the heavy feeling steering of the honda. the suspension and chassis on the ford makes the car feel lighter and a bit more tossable, although the honda does have a good feeling chassis...it just feels heavier and less direct. and of course the brakes on the honda have been tested to be pretty lackluster and in some cases worst in class. personally, i'd rather have an engine that was a few tenths slower to 60 than 15 feet shorter to get back to 0 mph; at least in an emergency stop, the ford would be more likely to avoid an accident. then of course, we could talk about the looks... personally i think the ford is pretty striking, and not too far out there like the nissan (at least the taillights) whereas the honda is not offensive or anything, but isn't a standout either. awd is another reason to like some versions of the ford... although i don't have awd on my mazda, i did have it on my subaru and it was valuable in more than just bad weather. when driving at anything more than 20mph, grip and traction is always a good thing and anything that helps improve this can either be safer or more fun. and of course the recent reliability reports in consumer reports and jd powers seem to confirm that the ford is holding up amongst the best of all automobiles. these are all good reasons to consider the ford over any car. would i buy one though? nope, i'm quite happy with my mazda.
yes, i'd have paid cash but took mazda's $1000 for getting a loan i did not need. i paid mine off after three weeks. i paid about $60 in interest and a $4 lien filing fee...so it was actually a $936 rebate for me . aaaargh...my dealer told me that i had to hold on to the loan for at least 3 months or else the rebate would be taken back! oh well, my net was around $740 which still isn't so bad. i hate slimy dealers!
always read the fine print!
and of course the recent reliability reports in consumer reports and jd powers seem to confirm that the ford is holding up amongst the best of all automobiles. get back to us in ten years and let us know how the ford did. in the meantime, we know how an honda will do.
we know how an honda will do. no, you think and hope you know how well an honda will hold up. just like stocks and mutual funds...past performance does not guarantee anything. i like honda engineers also...but look at their formula 1 cars; they are in last place right now despite spending 500 million a year. honda engineers are great, but they are not infallible. and we've all been talking about jd powers and consumer report's long term reliability studies... they both are confirming studies that show that the difference between one brand and another usually does not exceed 1 extra problem over a five year history. i understand you want to make a mountain out of a mole-hill to justify the extra expense, but really, the differences are not huge. most of the cars that are in this category are very well made.
why should we assume that the passersby in the advertisment are unbiased folks? you want to talk about hundreds of drivers, well just look at the real byuers - more than 800k per year vote with their wallet for the camcords, isn't that saying something? sales numbers are meaningless. ford sells 5x as many f-seris trucks as honda sells honda. does that mean trucks are better than cars?
personaly, i consider reliability rating fairly worthless. i guess they may be a good guide, but they don't, and can't factor in how well somebody takes care of their car. you could even go as far as to say that part of the reliability problem for lower priced cars is that many of the people who buy them are less well off, and it's the most they can afford for a car. lower income car buyers with less disposable income are far less likely to get all the proper maintanece performed on their car. its akin to why vehicles that are "dumped" into fleet sales get lower reliability rating. the drivers dog the hell out of 'em. its not that the car is inferior, it's that the drivers abuse them. to all those who ask, how will that ford be in 10yrs, i know how my honda will be, i'd say 1. i'd be willing to bet you an honda that a ford (properly maintained) will have about the same amount of problems as any honda, toyota, nissan ect 2. honda is every bit as capable of screwing up as anyone else. nissan (nor its customers) foresaw an engine problem in the fist month of 2006 production that would destroy sales of the nissan and nissan for the entire year. (the nissan still hasn't recovered) it was that unexpected, (and uncommon with nissan) mistake that contributed the most to honda passing nissan in sales last year.
i know that honda will blow the doors off of the competition because that is exactly what they did in the fall/winter of 2002 when they introduced the 2003 model honda. lightyears ahead of the competition at the time. the 03 honda was not light years ahead of the midsize competition, lets not forget the then new nissan was available, as was a new toyota. so at best the honda was competitive, but not light years as you mention.
"and we've all been talking about jd powers and consumer report's long term reliability studies... they both are confirming studies that show that the difference between one brand and another usually does not exceed 1 extra problem over a five year history. i understand you want to make a mountain out of a mole-hill to justify the extra expense, but really, the differences are not huge. most of the cars that are in this category are very well made." that depends on what exactly that one problem is... my brand new 2004 ford had 10 problems in 3 years and 45k. some of them were relatively minor, such as the rear door lock actuator failing, making the door difficult to open from the inside. others were more serious, such as transmission work at 9,000 miles (which still did not solve the problem). if that "1 extra problem" means a breakdown/stranding or even an expensive out of warranty repair, that's a little more than a mole-hill, at least to me.
in the meantime, we know how an honda will do. so you were expecting the tranny problems they had a couple of years ago with the v6 copies then? since there was no recall i'd imagine trannies are still failing here and there. :p
good post. i agree 99%.
sales numbers are meaningless. you're not a salesman, are you? you'll never be one with that attitude. ford sells 5x as many f-seris trucks as honda sells honda. does that mean trucks are better than cars? that's because for many many years people had very limited choices when it came to trucks. it is the last thing domestic companies have to hold them afloat. you can bet they are worried about the bigger and better japanese trucks coming into the market now. is it the beginning of the end?
sales numbers are meaningless you gotta be kidding....
if that "1 extra problem" means a breakdown/stranding or even an expensive out of warranty repair, that's a little more than a mole-hill, at least to me. yes, but you assume more than you should. where is the data that suggests that extra problem is one that would strand a person? there is some info on cr as to specific probs, but unfortunately i have not seen other sources supporting these findings. given that cr pulls data only from a small unrepresentative sample of the population, i hesitate to read too much into their conlusions unless the differences are drastic (red dot vs black dot). and again, the differences between brands are minor over a five year period in most of these cars in this segment in problem areas that would leave a person stranded. and when it comes to probabilities of that one extra problem being minor (one that does not require emergency and immediate service) are far greater than the chances of having a major problem (since the amount of minor problems far exceed the amount of major problems that can happen in a car). so not only is your argument assuming the worst without citing any evidence to support your assumption, but it would also seem the odds of having a minor problem far exceed the chances of having a major problem. so yeah, it's still a mole-hill.
honda don't have options, they only have models. vp,chrysler,se,ex,honda,honda-nav, chrysler-v6,se-v6,ex-v6,ex-v6-nav,ex-v6-6spd since it was a v6 auto, it is an lxv6,sev6, or exv6. i think the difference is sunroof or not, and a few minor things people are unlikely to notice in that type of exposure. the equipment seems pretty comparable. i am not as familiar with toyota's models and packages. the different models come with vast differences in equipment levels and prices. the differences in se-v6 and ex-v6 are as night and day as chrysler 4-cyl and honda 4-cyl, and their $4,000 difference in msrp reflects that. it isn't just minor stuff. it's leather, heated seats, auto climate control, black plastic trim vs. wood/alumininum trim, etc... i don't consider leather, heated seats, and auto climate control to be unlikely to be noticed, or "minor," but that's just me.
so you were expecting the tranny problems they had a couple of years ago with the v6 copies then? since there was no recall i'd imagine trannies are still failing here and there. there was a major tsb and a warranty extension, covering all transmissions in 2003 and 2004 v6 honda that failed within a massive number of miles (100k maybe?). you made it sound like honda didn't cover their customers, when the did in fact do so.
hertz global holdings inc. said thursday it will spend $68 million to add 3,400 toyota toyota hybrids to its fleets by 2008. and avis budget group inc. said this week it plans to make 1,000 hybrid toyota vehicles available for rent as early as next week. enterprise rent-a-car also operates a fleet of more than 3,000 hybrid vehicles... chee, the automotive analyst, said the rentals offer toyota motor corp. a chance to showcase the toyota, as well as give potential buyers a chance to decide if a hybrid is right for them . "i do think it's a risky move for toyota, because what they're saying is: 'here's the car, here's how it drives, we stand by our power train, and we think it'll win people over,'" chee said. hmmm, sound anything like hyundai's big move into the rental/fleet segment a couple years ago and subsequent cut back? do the same standards for criticism of hyundai hyundai rental/fleet sales apply to the toyota pious?
do the same standards for criticism of hyundai hyundai rental/fleet sales apply to the toyota pious? i guess it depends on the ratio they dump into fleet sales. if it is a massive number like hyundai did, then the toyota' value will drop. if they keep it limited to a few thousand per year (say, less than 6k) then there shouldn't be much of an issue.
so you're saying honda's relatively few problems with a few of their transmissions in one model year (which of course were replaced under warranty) somehow diminishes their reputation for outstanding quality over 20+ years of american automotive acceptance? their record of quality compared to ford's isn't a fair fight for ford. the american consumer has showed that. when the ford (will that be the car's name in 4 years or will ford change it?) can rack up the successes of the honda, the world will be stunned. i wouldn't hold your breath.
there was a major tsb and a warranty extension, covering all transmissions in 2003 and 2004 v6 honda that failed within a massive number of miles (100k maybe?). they were failing early on grad. it didn't take them 100k+ miles to fail. you made it sound like honda didn't cover their customers, when the did in fact do so. i never said that. however you and others blow by this tranny problem like it was nothing. most recalls from ford, gm, etc. result from small numbers of part failures so why didn't honda recall their tranny too? iirc the tranny failures weren't of the "my car won't go in reverse" nature, but rather the "holy cow my wheels just locked up at 75 mph on the highway" nature. recalls can be voluntary and a lot are. honda didn't do everyone a favor by extending the warranty. only replacing those trannies would have made owners safer. and it wasn't just the honda that had this problem either as you probably well know.
"more than 800k per year vote with their wallet for the camcords, isn't that saying something?" answer me why does the toyota finish last in the consumer reviews above? these are actual owners of toyota vehicles, not 1 "expert".
so you're saying honda's relatively few problems with a few of their transmissions in one model year (which of course were replaced under warranty) somehow diminishes their reputation for outstanding quality over 20+ years of american automotive acceptance? nope, that's not what i'm saying. i'm saying that every mfr has it's share of problems if you look deep enough for them. tranny failures are not something you brush under the carpet imo. the playing field has been leveled. get used to it and let that breath out now. :p furthermore, ford, gm, and all other mfrs replace faulty parts under warranty. why point out that honda did too? it's not like they did anything any other mfr would have done. :confuse: heck, ford extended the warranty on the last gen ford' powertrain to 100k miles just to show everyone that it was still a good car despite all of the nagging recalls.
answer me why does the toyota finish last in the consumer reviews above? because it doesn't hyundai at anything but rather does everything very well. the same reasons the ford and ford sold so well for ford.
"what i doubt, in effect, is that these were 'real' people (or everyday buyers in your words) in the sense that they weren't 'pre-qualified' by ford in the first place. " this is a laugh! don't you think car and driver would have caught wind of this if ford hand picked these people? car and driver was a neutral party. can't you just live with the ford won in this challenge? the difference here is that it is not just one "expert" with a magazine that has to keep the sales up and make the masses happy. these are everyday consumers. this is the reason why car and driver was there in the first place, ya think? ford sponsered/paid for it. i would no doubt agree with it being a lopsided challenge if ford did it by themselves.
"msn reliability data also claims the dodge neon to be reliable, but everyone that has owned one or known someone that owned one knows otherwise! " funny, i know 3 people with neons and they all say they are fine.. :surprise:
"the ford challenge was indeed paid for, sponsored, concocted, conceived, and advertised by ford! if that doesn't tell you it was rigged i don't know what does!!! i don't care what ford writes about the challenge. don't believe everything you read! consider the source! " where does car and driver fit into this then? so, whan the honda wins first place in the media, we are not to believe it?
this is going back into the "let's talk media" discussion again. this ford commercial stuff is getting really old around here, and doesn't really benefit the discussion of the actual cars, does it? the dead horse is bruised and bleeding... maybe we can carry it to let's talk media?
styling wise.. park a ford side by side with an honda or a toyota. the ford makes these other 2 look plain frumpy.. the ford sales person was so confident he actually drove the ford to a honda and a toyota lot and we compared the cars side by side for about an hour each car. this was a dealership that offered about 8 different car brands along a long strip of roadway.
"get back to us in ten years and let us know how the ford did. in the meantime, we know how an honda will do." dejavue again.. i hear this same story over and over again. i heard it when i bought my escort in 1991, my ranger in 1996, my ford in 2001.. all had high miles and ran great at sale. game over, news flash.. honda/toyota no longer have the reliability arena cornered..
park a ford side by side with an honda or a toyota. the ford makes these other 2 look plain frumpy. not to me. the honda's led taillights add a touch of high-end car, while the ford's mirrored taillights are just a bit too boy-racer to me, like a ricer's 8 year old honda or 12 year old honda. personally, i don't want my ride "pimped." the high rear deck also limits rear visibility. style is completely subjective, and isn't really quantifiable.
i agree there. reliability isn't nearly the concern it was 15 years ago. i'd still avoid chrysler (watched my father get burned twice by them), but any other company would be heartily in the running with me these days. they're all getting good/better with each year it seems.
"their record of quality compared to ford's isn't a fair fight for ford. the american consumer has showed that. when the ford (will that be the car's name in 4 years or will ford change it?) can rack up the successes of the honda, the world will be stunned. i wouldn't hold your breath." yep, no-way, no how will ford motor company, or general motors ever build a car to match a honda or toyota.. good grief... :sick:
don't worry, we don't all feel that ford will never make a comparable car to honda, toyota, etc... ford had quality problems, but 2007 quality is not the same as that in 1977 or 1987 (or even 1997), and people are realizing that. ford ford didn't meet my needs, but that doesn't mean it was an inferior vehicle. this, coming from a honda owner.
3400 hertz plus 1,000 avis in the next six months, plus however many pios' enterprise has, and it looks like much more than 6,000 units on an annualized basis. we know it's 4400 units from now to the end of the year just for hertz & avis. additional enterprise units? we could be looking at over 6,000 units before january, 2008. p.s. that's about $20k per copy (about $1k less than invoice), what are dealers getting for these cars?
what are dealers getting for these cars? beats me. i never shopped for any hybrid, much less a 'yota.
i don't know either, i was just posing a question (in response to many prior posts) about how rental/fleet sales cheapen the value of a car. but, obviously, your 6k target is on the low side.
have to agree with you. my last two sebrings have had problems. one thing chrysler still does well - their v6's get excellent fuel economy. both the sebrings were used for business travel and both delivered 30 - 32 mpg running 75 on the interstates with the 2.7liter 200hp engine. regards: oldcem
"yes, but you assume more than you should." i thought i qualified that statement with enough "ifs" but anyway, no different than you assuming any problems between brands would be minor to the owner. i'm not a huge fan of cr data either, but they have been on the money regarding where the problems were on most of my prior vehicles. minor/major, i guess that is personal and relative. my last ford had a transmission issue. at 9k they slapped a band-aid on it (still a pretty involved procedure) and said "all fixed." it wasn't any better. after that, they "couldn't duplicate the problem." when the warranty ran out at 36k i had the full transmission service done. little help. so i checked the good 'ol edmunds "maintenance and repair" forums and people were replacing trannies out of warranty. i'd probably have kept it if not for being worried about that and other issues. if i could have avoided that one problem by buying a different vehicle in the first place, it would have been worth it *to me.* we're not talking stranding, however several trips to dealer and eventual loss of faith in the vehicle out of warranty.
the 03 honda was not light years ahead of the midsize competition, lets not forget the then new nissan was available, as was a new toyota. so at best the honda was competitive, but not light years as you mention. don't forget the brand-new mazda was out for '03 as well. if, and i mean if, the honda was "lightyears" ahead of the competition, it probably would've beaten the infiniti g35 for motor trend coty. the honda redesign kept it one of the top competitors in the class, but i'd hardly call it "lightyears" ahead.
other car makers are severely criticized for selling into fleets and rentals. it lowers resale value for one quote from posters. here the toyota had just had slowing sales. magically it's a plus from the auto analyst that selling into fleets and rentals is going to be good for the image. duhhhhhhh. not true. it just shows the actual lack of sales for the toyota.
the honda redesign kept it one of the top competitors in the class, but i'd hardly call it "lightyears" ahead. i agree. while the honda is competitive and does best most cars in this class in several ways the differences are pretty minor. certainly not "lightyears". that's a pretty bold statement to make without backing it up in any way. i mean, was that statement purely media induced or do we have some hard facts to back it up?
aaaargh...my dealer told me that i had to hold on to the loan for at least 3 months or else the rebate would be taken back! oh well, my net was around $740 which still isn't so bad. i hate slimy dealers! actually, your net might have been a bit higher than you think, since it sounded like you would have financed the car anyway. so your net rebate would be based on the difference in the interest cost between the mac loan and the loan you replaced it with. all three places i shopped at told me it could be paid off right away. otoh, i did get hosed on the rate...10.5% for me, with a credit score around 800. not that it mattered much, given the length of time i had the loan . the dealer i bought from mentioned some places telling this 3 month story. the finance guy said no way would he do that because it is not worth getting in trouble with the state regulators. i have never seen another case where they gave a rebate only if you took a loan. it looks like they no longer are doing this with the mazda...now it's $1500 instead of $2000, but no requirement to take a loan to get any of it.
magically it's a plus from the auto analyst that selling into fleets and rentals is going to be good for the image. actually ford has been praised for selling hybrid escapes to fleets because it supposedly helps the image. the new york taxi fleets using them comes to mind off the bat.
but commercial fleets are totally different than rental fleets. commercial fleet sales are longer term and don't result in a flood of used cars. they are also better maintained.
we have enough midsize sedans to argue about discuss, we don't need to be dragging off-topic vehicles in here just to bicker over what fleet sales mean.
i think the ford styling is unique, but bland. the taillights are ugly, the rest of the car is nondescript. realizing however, that beauty is in the eyes of the beholder...
i've heard this story also. and after two ford...seems to be true.
re 2137 maybe some people have reached the point where they expect even more than excellent from everything. they won't tolerate even the slightest quirks,etc,regardless of what/where/why. a few years ago we couldn't even find a vehicle whose quality would match these of today. almost every car in this category is miles ahead in the quality race, compared to say 10 yrs ago. who knows why people respond the way they do to the various questionnaires ? i just don't think you can judge completely by any survey, you have to find out for yourself. van
now you think everybody should buy a ford because you think it looks better! as graduate says that kind of thing 100% subjective and probably should be the last reason to buy anything. imo the new nissan followed by the saturn are the better looking cars in this class right now, but it really really doesn't matter at all.
these are everyday consumers <<b>i>you don't know this and neither do i know that they weren't as kristie noted. does it bother you btw that both c&d and later, r&t were also being paid by ford as well, that ford had to have them there to lend any sort of credibility to the result that they wanted, and that both publications came up with different results doing comparisons on their own? enough of this, believe what you want!
yes indeed "enough" - no more c&d ford comparo/ad/whatever, please.
i'm sorry, but everyone has their preferences as to which car is best for them. but some people on both sides of the aisle seem to want to think that their car is the best and everyone should be driving one! honda, ford, nissan, toyota, gm...they all offer something different to consumers, and they are all fallible. you drive what you like, and others drive what they like. i like nissan - sporty, aggressive styling, fun to drive...not saying it is the best ever - but the best for me. like the subject line says... -thene
yeah my only issue is the lack of standard abs. honda has it standard, i believe toyota does too, and while not standard, its hard to find a ford w/o it, and its not a lot of $$. i would rather have abs to avoid an accident than 27 airbags to explode once i am in one.
believe it or not, when i was selling nissan, i'd have a decent amount of people ask for a car without abs. either they didn't like it, or preferred not to have it, etc. i'm just saying... if i wanted abs, then i'd find a car with abs...its not that hard. but if i wanted a car without abs, its harder to find those over the broad spectrum of cars... either way, the driving dynamics and styling of the nissan are more appealing to me than the other midsized sedans in this class. not that they are bad cars - im sure they are all fantastic! just not for me... -thene
that would be a deal!
i would rather have abs to avoid an accident than 27 airbags to explode once i am in one. you're kidding, right? how is abs going to prevent someone from hitting you? especially from a side impact. abs might allow you to avoid a small percentage of potential accidents whereas airbags will protect you in 100% of potential accidents.
airbags protect you 100% of the time???? really? i'll remember that when you get t-boned by a 60,000 pound 70' long semi-truck while i use abs to steer and slow down enough at the same time to avoid him! let's see the airbags protect you there!
abs might allow you to avoid a small percentage of potential accidents whereas airbags will protect you in 100% of potential accidents. airbags protect you in 0% of potential crashes, they only help you in actual crashes. further, abs helps to prevent the need for airbags in everything except side impact, which relatively speaking is a small % of total accidents. one of the reasons the % of side impact accidents is increasing is because the number of rear end collisions is going down because of safety features like abs.
let me rephrase that. abs will allow you to avoid a small percentage of accidents that would otherwise be unavoidable without abs. airbags will provide some level of protection in almost all accidents. the statement was that abs was better than airbags if you had to have one or the other. i say you need both.
honda would never allow engine problems like nissan did. they are in different leagues reliability and quality control wise. only toyota and honda share the top rung league of reliability (which of course includes acura and lexus. maintenance means little to nothing to a well built reliable and dependable car. my friend raped the hell out of his '94 prism (toyota corrola with geo emblem on the grill). he floored the little thing wherever he went. it was his first car, he was a teenage driver; you get the picture? he banged it up good, drove it like a madman, and maintained it lazily; he got it to 100,000 miles without spending a dime in repairs (other than maybe some bodywork for "accidents"). i babied and pampered my '95 neon, oil changes every 3k miles, all the maintenance under the severe schedule recommendations. i had to spend around 5,000 dollars keeping it running; and that includes getting rid of it at 65,000 miles. i can only imagine it might have taken the next owner at least another $10,000 dollars to get that car to 100k miles. if a car can't be driven agressively, (abused as you say) and still hold up, then it is a piece of junk. plain and simple. any high quality vehicle (like my 2003 honda) can be driven as hard as you want w/o worry of any "problems," granted, you should at least follow a reasonable maintenance schedule if your going to be driving it hard. reliability and dependability ratings should not only be based on "best case scenario" maintenance and babying it type driving, but also "minimum maintenance" and very aggresive type driving. that is what matters, that is what counts, and that is the true test. either way, there is no reason to believe that not maintaining vehicles (because low income people might not do it) would affect reliablity rankings in a way that would make them unreliable data. all car brands and all car models would be equally mis-maintained over a large sample size. also, mercedes/chrysler have reached the bottom of the pit in reliability, and last i checked low income people don't buy them. honda's and toyota's are fairly economical, and they are at the top...... hmm.......
i think the ford styling is unique, but bland. wow, really. i don't care for the styling myself, but bland??? the excessive chrome grill is certainly not bland. i'm pretty sure if you look up the definition of that word, there is a picture of the current honda there :p . the best looking of these cars is clearly the mazda . this is proven by toyota's feeble attempt to copy some of its appearance features into the new toyota. the nissan is not appealing to me at all. the only thing the new design accomplishes is to make the previous version look not so bad. maybe if they did something to make the rear end not look so "heavy"...
as for the ford making the honda and toyota look "frumpy", park the ford next to an saturn, or nissan, or even the old mazda, and suddenly the ford looks pretty frumpy, in my eyes. i saw an saturn on the road today and i was reminded that it is a very slick looking car, especially the rear 3/4 view. maybe because there is actually some sheet metal on the car, vs. all tailights and headlamps as on the nissan. the mazda is an old design now but i think it's worn well, especially the special value edition available now with minimal ground effects, big alloys, and blacked-out lamps.
i say you need both. oh if i get both by all means bring on the balloons to keep my head out of the grill of an suv driven by someone the phone as they mow through a red light.
the truth is, according to the data from jd powers and consumer reports, that the difference between cars in this category over a five year period is minimal, and the chances are that the problem that does occur is going to be minor which does not require immediate and emergency attention. so any talk about how much more reliable a certain car is without any verifiable statistics is baseless or at least anecdotal. because the data that really does exist shows that the differences in reliability between cars in this class is quite small, and would probably surprise most buyers. i do understand your reluctance to trust a certain brand because of personal expererience... but working in electronics retail showed me that every manufacturerer has problems so if every one of those customers with a bad experience means that brand was bad, well there would be no brands to buy. i will pay attention to blogs and forums to get a gauge of what areas are problematic, but i will always give more weight to studies that gather information from thousands of sources and not just one.
furthermore, ford, gm, and all other mfrs replace faulty parts under warranty. why point out that honda did too? it's not like they did anything any other mfr would have done. incorrect!!!! you couldn't be more wrong. dodge never offered to ante up for fixing my early death faulty tranny in my dodge. chrysler didn't come to the rescue either. in fact, when i asked the dodge dealer why i had to keep coming back and why the car kept breaking down, the reply was, "cars just breakdown, parts just break down." so i was left out in the cold by chrysler/dodge. i will never buy an american vehicle again because of that tranny failure. the same thing happened to me again in my v6 honda from 2003, but honda stepped up and fixed it after warranty technically expired. not only did they pay to fix it, but they paid for the rental, ordered the new tranny assembly overnight shipping, and got me back on the road on wednesday after taking the car in on monday morning. i paid nothing. for the dodge, i paid about $1,200 to fix it. i will buy a honda again if i feel like it. i will never ever until hell freezes over and pigs fly on the same day buy a chrysler made product. honda stands behind their products, i have serious doubts about the big 3. heck, they might not even exist in 4 years when your tranny fails in that ford, gm, or chrysler product, what then, no one to go to for warranty repairs! think about that! they will go out of business and screw all of their customers in a heartbeat. also, it didn't hurt that the tranny issue was the only mechanical issue in my honda, meanwhile the dodge had 100 problems mechanically, literally.
the 2003 honda coupe offerred me 240 hp with 30 mpg on the highway (epa rating). it offered traction control, abs, power driver's seat, built-in alarm/security system, 6 cd changer, and i got it all for 25k out the door. what other vehicle could i have purchased that meets or exceeds, get that... meets or exceeds (not comes close in some area or other) in november of 2002? 21/30 mpg, 240 hp, very good handling and interior fit and finish, excellent build quality.
all of that is nice - but its not "lightyears" ahead of the other sedans available at that time... if that's what you consider "lightyears" though...i don't know what to tell ya... -thene
oh really? -you are aware that honda's last gen. 3.5 engine, used in my neighbors honda (and the reworked one is in my honda) was removed from the van as oil was not reaching a part of the engine. it was an engineering issue and req'd redesign. this was not publicized because honda found the issue before it was reported. it req'd removing 22,000 honda engines and shipping them for the work. -you are aware the last generation acura acura had transmission failure issues and so many brake failures that they faced recalls to change the master cylinder. the honda has also had serious brake issues after 50,000 miles -you are aware that this generations honda has had hundreds of thousands of center stack cluster failures (stereo units only). consumers are seriously misled if they believe that a car manufacturer is bulletproof and their models are free from defect in engineering or design. even the best manufacturers deal with recalls as they have to deal with part makers they outsource to. they also sometimes make mistakes in the engineering process. this is a fact: the level of quality between the best and worst manufacturer today is so small, in defects per 100 vehicles, that the over publication of 'quality' being owned by a few manufacturers is ridiculous. do most people realize that we are talking about 1 problem (and that problem could be a seatbelt handle as in the hyundai hyundai) per 100 vehicles between the best and worst. yet jdpower is making millions publicizing this very subjective data. fact is that kia's are just about the same as lexus's. if you dispute this simply study the data.
maybe the issue then isn't so much the product, but how the manufacturer stands behind the product. in all the examples i've seen, toyota and honda stepped up warranties and did what was in their power to minimize the inconvenience to the customer. it was almost like they were ashamed or embarrassed about it. i am sure others can come up with examples of other manufacturers not taking this route.
maybe the issue then isn't so much the product, but how the manufacturer stands behind the product. a very keen observation.
"fact is that kia's are just about the same as lexus's. if you dispute this simply study the data." what comes to mind here are lies, damn lies and statistics. if you believe the data shows kia is on par with lexus with regard lexus' overall track record, i don't know what to say. there is not a manufacturer on the face of this planet who can claim they have had a perfect track record. buying a car is a crap shoot. you can end up with a lemon from the worlds best manufacturer. conversly you can end up with a hyundai experience from the world worst manufacturer. having said that, i would rather take my chances with some, than with others.
one manufacturer could have 10 problems all in one car, thereby losing a customer for life, while another could have 1 problem in 10 vehicles, thereby simply annoying but not losing 10 customers.
remember we're talking about the midsize sedans , please. we're going off-topic a lot in the past few pages and that always gets us into trouble.
that this generations honda has had hundreds of thousands of center stack cluster failures (stereo units only). know of one that did exactly this but honda replaced it even though the car was well out of any warranties. however, the whole concept that any manufactuer of anything is somehow exempt from problems is ridiculous, how they handle it once it does happen is something else. if i remember correctly, the previously mentioned nissan engine problem, had nissan suspending 4 cylinder model sales (at the dealer level) as well as discontinuing production until that problem was solved. that, in my mind, is being proactive, and a good example of a responsive mfgr..
the differences in se-v6 and ex-v6 are as night and day as chrysler 4-cyl and honda 4-cyl, and their $4,000 difference in msrp reflects that. it isn't just minor stuff. it's leather, heated seats, auto climate control, black plastic trim vs. wood/alumininum trim, etc... can't compare an se-v6 to an chrysler 4-cyl though... se 4-cyl is the correct comparison. chrysler 4-cyl has steelies. about the only thing in the ex-v6 to me that actually is nice to have would be the xm sat radio.
however, the whole concept that any manufactuer of anything is somehow exempt from problems is ridiculous, how they handle it once it does happen is something else. truer words were never written, captain2.
either way, the driving dynamics and styling of the nissan are more appealing to me than the other midsized sedans in this class. not that they are bad cars - im sure they are all fantastic! just not for me... -thene i feel the same exact way about our ford. i would substitute ford for nissan in your sentence. boz
fair enough (we're really nit-picking). i was thinking about the interior trim. all black plastic in the se v6 and chrysler 4-cyl. the se 4-cyl gives you upgraded trim.
what comes to mind here are lies, damn lies and statistics.' we have a conspiracy theorist here and i am talking about initial quality, which is the first 90 days of ownership. kia has about 125 problems per 100 vehicle. this is from surveys. lexus has a little under 100. so we are talking about a very small percentage of problems the owners of lexus' and kia's are experiencing in the first 90 days of ownership. one of our clients bought a lexus is250awd and had two problems in the first 90 days. lexus came and picked up the car and dropped it back off. they also gave her a choice of a gift on both occasions. she was begged not to report the problems on the survey. she didn't. she was very happy still. you believe what you want.
honda would never allow engine problems like nissan did. nissan didn't "allow" the problem. it showed up, and was quickly corrected. it can and does happen to every automobile manufacture. they are in different leagues reliability and quality control wise no they aren't. i have a 9 yr old nissan in my driveway with 145k miles on it that has not had 1 repair made to it. doesn't get any better than 0 maintenance means little to nothing to a well built reliable and dependable car it has everything to do with it. my job involves visiting hundreds of repair shops, and meeting upwards of a thousand mechanics a year. i can quite confidently tell you that the majority of cars being fixed in garages are being fixed because they weren't properly maintained. and yes, i see plenty of honda, and toyota; along with every other make of car. the overwhelming number of engines replacements are done because the engine sludged up from lack of proper oil changes. the overwhelming number of radiator/head gasket repairs are made because the cooling system was never flushed. the vast majority of transmissions needing replaced/rebuilt are because they were never flushed. it is absolutely astonishing how people treat their cars. i couldn't count the number of times i've seen a radiator flushed and the water comes out brown with tiny peices of corrosion in it, or the number of times i've seen engines so sludged up that oil couldn't even be poured in because it couldn't drain down. if you in any way doubt this, stop changing your oil and come back in 15,000 miles and let me know how your car is doing. oh, and i never said much about how you drive it. cars shouldn't be any less reliable if they're driven hard.
have serious doubts about the big 3. heck, they might not even exist in 4 years when your tranny fails in that ford, gm, or chrysler product they arn't going anywhere. keep in mind, ford still sells about 100k more vehicles a month than honda. at least in the us.
consumers are seriously misled if they believe that a car manufacturer is bulletproof and their models are free from defect in engineering or design. even the best manufacturers deal with recalls as they have to deal with part makers they outsource to. they also sometimes make mistakes in the engineering process. don't know about pilots etc, all i can tell about is my honda. my v6 honda (03) did have a recall on the transmission. the recall fix obviously worked, because i haven't been seeing much about failing transmissions in 03 v6 honda. i am at 47k miles and my tranny is working great. i have also heard about the radio displays going out on 03 honda. i recently received a notice from honda that the warranty has been extended to 7 years/100k miles for the radio displays. they will also reimburse anyone who has paid for the display before the warranty extension. my display has not gone out, but it is nice to know honda is standing behind the car if it does. how many car companies would do this?
how many car companies would do this? not enough
my display has not gone out, but it is nice to know honda is standing behind the car if it does. how many car companies would do this? in a perfect world, they all would. it's too bad we live in an imperfect world, one where far too many manufacturers respond with "tough luck buddy. better luck next time."
the overwhelming number of engines replacements are done because the engine sludged up from lack of proper oil changes. this reminds me of one neighbor's car. he never changed the oil, only added some when it got low. it lasted a few years, but it finally burned up. when he took the valve cover off, i could see the word ford from the valve cover imprinted on the sludge packed in there. like the mechanic says, "pay me a little now, or a lot later".
"cars shouldn't be any less reliable if they're driven hard." really? that's pretty comforting. i drive my cars pretty hard, but not what one might consider abuse. i never drop the clutch, always start cleanly then throttle it. i don't powershift. i usually shift up at 3k rpms, sometimes 4, less often 5, and rarely redline, but i'm mostly into the throttle pretty good regardless of rpm. i often wonder if driving less enthusiastically would have a dramatic increase in the longevity of the vehicle. but that wouldn't be any fun! besides, i can't be too bad as i still see epa mileage, and at over 5,200 miles the honda's "maintenance minder" is still showing 30% oil life left (apparently calculated based on accumulated engine revs). i always do the maintenance, full synthetic etc. what's everyone think? do you typically drive your midsize sedan more like a sports sedan? if so, do you think it will affect long-term reliabilty?
as long as your driving hard, and not abusing. its like with a clutch, droping it isn't nearly as bad as driving with it half in, half out. that what kills them the fastest. not saying its good to rev the engine to 5ooo rpm and then pop it, but i'd consider that abusive too. i think you might see a little more longevity (my speculation) if you were easier on it, but only because hard driving will tend to make a weak part give out. as where with easier driving, it might last a little longer. oil is kind of funny, and very condition dependant. newer cars run much cleaner than cars of 10yrs ago. couple that with much improved oil (the addatives) and it tends to stay cleaner a lot longer. someone driving primarily highway miles for moderate distances could very well go 5,6 or more thousand miles without an oil change. on the flip side, someone driving short distance, stop and go rush hour traffic would be making a huge mistake to change their oil any less than 3k.
plus, honestly, what's the cost of an oil change? $20? $30? it's not like one extra change or two per year is going to blow your bank account or anything. and it gives you better mileage and less wear as well, since there's less sludge and gunk circulating. of course, i also put some oil stabilizer in as well, since the summers out here in ca/nv/etc are brutal and sap viscosity like a vacuum cleaner. doubly so if it's an older car. and, yeah - even with a new car, 3k and the oil is dirty and full of gunk. goes in almost clear and comes out the color of mud. using that oil life sensor and going 5-6k between changes is what gets you the sludge. trust your brain and not the gadget i say.
and, yeah - even with a new car, 3k and the oil is dirty and full of gunk. goes in almost clear and comes out the color of mud. using that oil life sensor and going 5-6k between changes is what gets you the sludge. depends a lot on the driving too. for instance, i drive one of my cars 25 miles to work on 4 lane road with no lights or stop signs. the engine has plenty of time to reach proper operating temp, and i don't have any of the slow speed stop and go traffic. at 3k, the oil looks like it just came out of the bottle. now my wife on the other hand, drives 7 or 8 miles to and from work through about a dozen traffic lights in stop and go driving. the oil in that car starts to get black at about 2500 miles. but like you said, its $30 plus they vaccum and wash your windows. when in doubt, just change it.
dodge never offered to ante up for fixing my early death faulty tranny in my dodge. if it was out of warranty then they had no reason to. honda's tranny failures were of a different nature and happened early on in the vehicles life in a lot of cases which prompted them to extend the warranty. that's why your honda transmission was replaced. do you really think that if the tranny goes out on a honda vehicle which is out of warranty, standard or extended, they'll replace the tranny for free? if yes, then head on over here because i have a lot of nice bridges for sale.
not talking about iqs. talking about overall customer experience. lexus is about as bullet proof as they come over the life of car. in my opinion, that is far from the case with kia vehicles. most vehicles these days have a high iqs with the first 90 days of ownership. there are exceptions to the rule of course, but the fringe cases are not the rule. everybody will believe what they want and can have some statistic to support their assertion.
do you really think that if the tranny goes out on a honda vehicle which is out of warranty, standard or extended, they'll replace the tranny for free? yes, it has happened many times. if you have proof that maintenance was done, and it is an obvious defect, honda will work with you. honda customers know what "good will" repair means. that's how they keep customers coming back.
actually, i tend to believe you. never had to take the honda in for anything, but after they way they handled the odometer thing, deffinitly impressed me. for those who don't know, honda cars were accused of misreading milage. and, even though the varations in actual mileage vs. odometer milage were less than the margin of error set by the government, honda willingly, without being forced, extened all waranties and made restitutions to people who leased and had to pay milage charges.
honda willingly, without being forced, extened all waranties and made restitutions to people who leased and had to pay milage charges. they were sued . i think they had a pretty good reason to give the money back don't you? why must everyone spin honda's actions into being "for the greater good"? they are a company in business to make money, not save the world. :sick:
yes, they were sued, but there was no indication they would loose. the amounts their odometers were off were well within what the government allowed. personally, i don't see how they could have lost. basically, the gvt says you can be off +/- 1 mile per 100 and the honda odo's were off +/- .5 miles per 100. those arn't exact numbers, but thats how it shook out. but honda decided they would voluntarily make restitution. fyi, nissan was sued for the same thing, and has chosen to fight it in court. and read some of my posts. though i have nothing against honda, i am by no means a honda homer. i prefer nissan myself, but don't mind giving honda props where its due.
why must everyone spin honda's actions into being "for the greater good"? they are a company in business to make money, not save the world. you don't seem to understand. :confuse: honda sees "good will" repairs as an investment, in repeat customers. when you loose customers, you loose sales down the road. you can tell which companies didn't see it as an investment 10 years ago. the same ones who are loosing money now.
honda may have also made a business decision that it was less expensive to fix, whether needed or not, than to get tied up in lengthy litigation. out of court settlements are made all the time, particularly dubious claims for injuries resulting from car accidents. if an insurance company can "buy out" of a claim for $2,000 rather than spend a minimum of $1500 fighting a case they could lose, they'll 'buy out" most every time.
ford only knows how to sell trucks and toyota's ruining their party slowly - they can't sell midsized sedans or even cars to equal toyota/honda or even come anywhere close. :p i'm not in the market for a truck, and if i was, i'd get a toyota. still amazed at how silent and smooth my honda honda v6 runs - effortless power. :shades:
ford only knows how to sell trucks and toyota's ruining their party slowly yes, but trucks out sell cars, have since the 90's. and toyota could one day seriously cut into them, but they have a loooooong way to go. the new toyota is nice, but it doesn't even come close to what a f-350 can do. there is a huge gap between what a ford truck and a toyota truck can do. ford could very easily survive as a truck company. hell, they practicly are now. and both toyota and nissan scrubbed their plans for heavy duty/super duty versions of the toyota and nissan.
do you actually think ford can survive on only heavy duty trucks. not a chance.
reving a warmed engine with good oil pressure isn't going to hurt anything, thats why the oil is there. once it gets to proper temp, your pistons are gliding on sheet of warm oil. it is basically a zero wear environment. if an engine is never rev'd, the piston may go microscopically higher in the cylinder than it is used to, and the carbon deposits can build up in the cylinder walls and stop the piston or chip the piston ring. either way, its not pretty but i haven't heard of a case of this on a modern engine with modern gas. dropping the clutch isn't as hard on the clutch as riding it, but its harder on the rest of the drive-train and suspension components. shock loading every gear and shaft in the system isn't particularly helpful. just watch amateur drag night (racing, not cross-dressing) and watch for the broken drive shafts and transmissions and suspension components. you can use machinery, just try to have some respect for it and be mindful of what you are asking it to do.
have you checked out the prices of oil lately *cough* like today? :sick: one day all ford will be is just selling 250/350s and econovans to businesses, not consumers. :lemon: mullaly should have stayed at boeing - their stock is through the roof and they are kicking airbus like crazy. ford's got no dreamliner either... and even jag's on the chopping block.
"ford ford didn't meet my needs, but that doesn't mean it was an inferior vehicle. this, coming from a honda owner." yes!@ thanks, finally a good statement.. i can live with that. the ford didn't meet your needs, nor what you were looking for. i can say the same for the honda or toyota, which is why i chose the ford.
"maybe some people have reached the point where they expect even more than excellent from everything. they won't tolerate even the slightest quirks,etc,regardless of what/where/why." i agree, honda/toyota owners i believe let a little more go because of the quality reputation. ford/gm are under one heck of a microscope. one little rattle.. and wammo!@ the vehicle is junk, or lacks refinement... :shades:
i'd get a toyota. i guess you didn't hear that they've got 20 confirmed camshaft failures on the toyota 5.7l truck engines. they knew about it in february yet chose to continue selling them.
i guess you missed the latest.. ford just won 5 quality awards from jd powers.. beating out toyota.. looks like mullaly is doing something right at ford. :shades:
like mazda 6 is going to get a bit larger for 08/09 model. i wonder what the engine choices will be? i would have grabbed a 6 but i felt the back seats were cramped.
where all the nissan nissan owners are?? i am very surprised there aren't more in this room full of honda/toyota/ford owners.. :confuse:
as bad as the honda and toyota cheerleaders are and as much as i like ford, your posts are just as bad. can we stop discussing who's better and just ford on the cars themselves?
i wouldn't be surprised anyway with all the baseless sniping and very little about the cars themselves... so i'll post more pics!
they're out driving their cars. and they're very fun to drive. :p
really? i'm underwhelmed with the 2.5. it's definitely just ok. haven't driven the 3.5 but i'm would tend to believe it's more of the same with a bigger engine. the subaru is the most useful car overall in this class. it has awd, long cargo area, optional turbo. the only problem with it, is the cabin is a bit cramped for my tastes. mazda to me is to small as a family sedan. in my area a lot of kids drive them, probably because they can be had for a song.
really? i'm underwhelmed to each his own
i just think the whole package is sort of blah, including the drive. i'm not really a nissan fan. i did however own multiple nissan' in the past. (however my owners experience left me cold).
very nice pic of the mazda. every time i see a mazda i cant help but admire the incredible tight body panel fit on the vehicle. im aware most modern sedans boast excellent fit and finish, but the 6 has been out for some time under the current design, which is aging quite well, still looks very sharp and athletic. cant wait to see what mazda has planned for the 08 model, im sure it will be a very sharp vehicle, as most of mazda's current lineup is looking impressive.
as bad as the honda and toyota cheerleaders are and as much as i like ford, your posts are just as bad. great stuff.
where all the nissan nissan owners are?? i am very surprised there aren't more in this room full of honda/toyota/ford owners. i did notice that the nissan now has one consumer review and received all 10s and 9s. obviously that is one happy and satisfied owner. however, one review does not a consensus make.
"yes! thanks, finally a good statement.. i can live with that. the ford didn't meet your needs, nor what you were looking for. i can say the same for the honda or toyota, which is why i chose the ford." hey, i've said all along that ford was on my short list, but i just like the honda better for personal reasons. i've maintained that it was/is a competitor. i went out on the local cycling club bike ride this morning, and noticed 4 or 5 new ford way out there in the country (aka ford land). in one driveway, next to the big ford truck, was one of the new ford. at the end of the driveway was an 03-05 honda, with "for sale" signs on it. ford is winning some buyers away!
nice mazda. the hatchbacks are cool. keep the pics coming, they keep the forum interesting. who was it that put the trailer hitch on? jd? i've been thinking about doing that myself.
for some reason the nissan reviews were deleted. there were close to 200, then for whatever reasons they deleted them. then it got back up to about 8 or so, and were deleted again have no idea why. perhaps one of the mods can answer this?
i just noticed the hyundai reviews are now at zero.
no reviews have been deleted. what's listed at the top is the number of reviews for the current model. when a new model is released, the previous year's reviews are no longer current but they are available just by clicking on the links.
where all the nissan nissan owners are?? when i'm not trying to tone down all the ford blog, that would be what i am ,a very satisfied purchaser of 3 nissan and a nissan, 2 older 4 bangers and an 03 3.5 (the nissan had a 3.0). it is from nissan that my personal bias towards great engines/drivetrains comes. really like the new nissan but admit to finding the new cvt a little disconcerting. it is strange though that with as many as they sell, that we don't see some 'blog' on this car as well. it is certainly something that is 'blogable'. don't know what the sales stats are in my area (texas), but down here i seem to see more of them than camcords! and yes, cr does have the new nissan tied for top spot in the fiercely competitive midsize sedan segment with the older honda, but that may change with the new honda due out in a few months. we'll see...
oh, i see what you did. but why have the 2007 reviews been moved off the front page when the 2008's haven't hit the market yet? and why is that only done for the nissan?
well, the cvt deffinitly takes some getting used to. having driven nothing but mt's for the last 18 years, and there's that pesky break in period (almost have to fight the damn car to keep the speed and rpm down, it almost wants to push itself) it was a month or two before i really got used to it. but once i did, i began to realize just how amazing that thing is. as for the blogs, don't know about them, but the enthusiast sites are pretty active.
strange thing is, is that i'm not seeing a lot of the new nissan around. in the last couple months i've only noticed two of them. i wonder if the cvt is slowing interest... if people find it feels too strange, it'd be hard to plop down 20k on one.
in the list above it's been done for the hyundai as well, and the 08 nissan has indeed hit the market.
is that an i or de-badged s?
thanks! yeah, every time i walk out to find my car in a parking lot, i think that it still looks really nice vs it's peers, even if it's a car designed 5 years ago. it just has a nice flow to it. i agree with backy who said that the newer mazda's have a bit more of a refined look since they toned down some of the sharper ground effects, but it still has the typical muscular mazda curves. the 08 has me pretty excited too, especially hearing what they may do to bump up the power. i just hope they don't make it too big and make it feel too bloated and boat-ish. right now, passenger space is perfectly adequate if just a bit snug, but the handling and balance is great for a passenger car. i spent 20 minutes riding in the back seat of a friend's mazda, and i was perfectly comfortable with plenty of legroom and headroom. but i get the sense that with all the other cars in this class getting bigger, the dye has been cast for the 6 to maybe be a bit less sleek like it is now, and be a bit more muscular in the next gen.
yeah, it's a debadged "s" - i took off the mazda logos and the v-6 badges. i also took off the bumper guards on the doors to try to give the profile a bit more of a clean, sleek look. nothing major as far as mods go, but just some little details to make my car a bit more unique than mazda's already are.
i read somewhere that texas is one of the few states in the u.s. where nissan outsells honda and toyota...must still be true. i'm going to look for that article. i notice in atlanta that nissan are pretty abundant as well, but so are honda and toyota. in south carolina. toyota in particular rules.
in north carolina, i see more toyota than anything else, and the rest of the midsizers as follows in order from most popular to least: honda, hyundai, nissan, ford/mercury, mazda, pontiac, kia, saturn.
honda, hyundai, nissan, ford/mercury, mazda, pontiac, kia, saturn. i'm in nc too, but hyundai third behind toyota & honda? i'd put the nissan and the fulan ahead of the hyundai. then the rest. i see minimal mazda 6s and optimas.
just based on sightings, i'd have to say the toyota and honda dominate the mid-size sedan market in salisbury, md, followed by nissan and hyundai. ford and milans are not commonplace at all. which, as the owner of a 2007 sel awd ford, is kind of nice. the ford's bold, distinctive looks still stands out in a crowded field. it is nice to have a great car that is different from the "herd."
you don't seem to understand. honda sees "good will" repairs as an investment, in repeat customers. going by that they should have replaced our driver's power window track 3 months after the warranty expired ($400+ out of our pocket), the shocks at 30k miles, the muffler at 35k miles, the clunking spring in the right rear (they never did "reproduce" that one to fix it) and several other electrical and poorly crafted items in our '96 honda. but alas, they didn't. maybe honda owners aren't important enough for their "good will"? the brake pads kept wearing out about every 12k miles no matter what kind we put on too. i understand that that's not necessarily their fault though. h, and the catalytic converter's heat shields both rusted off not long after the warranty wore off (the years came long before the miles) and their advise to us was "not to park in grass or dry leaves". i should have done just that and let the thing burn to the ground. i'd still buy another honda, but i'll never put them up on a pedestal like the media and other folks do.
of about 500 people...i was the second person to get an nissan...now there are at least 10...which is amazing considering how well the camcords sell in my area. i think in major cities you'll see quite a bit of hyundai and even nissan and toyota because they sell so many to fleets. here the new toyota dominates...period.
in central sd toyota and honda are fairly rare. they are outnumerd nearly 10 to 1 by suburbans. :surprise: sad state of affairs really.
honda used to be really dominant here in nj until the new toyota came along. now there's toyota galore. there used to be a ton of nissan too but i haven't seen as many of the redesigned ones. the ford's bold, distinctive looks still stands out in a crowded field. the old toyota was bland and boring. the new toyota is a lot more bold and distinctive, and imo, front ugly. the ford is back ugly to me - rice-a-roni lights and plain exhaust tips on the ones i seem to see (only the sel has chrome tips). and the redesigned nissan has taken bold and distinctive to a whole new level.
i feel the same about my ex-ford, which shortly after the warranty expired started to have tranny issues and sunroof problems. ford wanted charge me over $1000 to diagnose these problems, not including the repair. after two vehicles they don't get a third chance no matter how many jd powers awards they get.
i'm sure the "good will" depends on whether or not you bring the car to that dealer for maintenance, and the dealer service manager's willingness to work with you. the dealer will not just offer you good will service, you have to ask for consideration. if it's a common problem, you have a shot. i have not received a good will repair on my 2 honda, but then i don't bring the car to the dealer for maintenance, and there was only one repair done at the dealer since i bought the first honda in 91.
they are in business to make money, and aren't going to give anybody free car care for life. but like i was saying with the odometer problems; they settled and agreed to pay up. nissan is still fighting in court with no intention of paying a dime. not that i blame them, neither company was in the wrong.
are you residing per chance in pierre, sd? uh-huh, the capital honda. we lived there for a while in 2005. lots of suburbans and ford and gm pick-em-up trucks. oh, and don't forget all the old gm cars and ford escorts, etc. it really is a dead place for automobiles!
i have to agree...some elements of the ford don't sit well with me. i'm beginning to like the mercury better. the ford looks so 1990s to me...it's too boxy looking and the taillights are nissan-like but not nearly as cool looking. folks like to knock the camcords but the ford offers nothing compelling outside of it's three bar grille, caddy/nissan styled headlights and clear taillamps in the back. i don't think there is an "original" design in this class of car because even the nissan got it's roofline from the volkswagen, but the nissan love it or leave it...is one of the few somewhat distinctive sedans in its class. the mazda is probably the only other distinctive looking one. i do feel that the new nissan played it too safe though. even the alloy wheels on the 07s resemble the previous nissan's alloys too much and from the sides the 17s on the se models look like 15s. and especiallly from the sides, the nissan looks hatchback-like this time around because of the high designed trunk and taillights that stick out at on the sides. nissan should upgrade and make 17s standard and 18s se/sl exclusives. the nissan has always been my choice style-wise (and my opinions are subjective) but its always been the honda that i thought was the best. nissan brought some neat technology to the table this time around bluetooth (toyota did that first) push start standard, optional rear view camera, xenons (the prev. gen had those) etc. etc. i hope the honda has some of those features and more..and keeps some features that the nissan still lacks (power passenger's seat) and maybe adds some things (power pedals, rain sensing wipers. i actually think the honda will have a nice front end this time around from what we have seen, i like the sides too. just hope the rear looks decent. i'm just sad that it seems the v6/6spd combo won't be available this time around.
and the redesigned nissan has taken bold and distinctive to a whole new level. nothing personal, neteng, but the nissan is my least favorite mid-size sedan, especially because of its styling. different strokes for different folks. but the taillights on our ford are something that i would change if i could.
i am a bit surprised hyundai would not be more popular in the southeast, since they are built there. perhaps it is partly due to lack of dealer coverage in the more rural areas of the southeast?
the redesigned nissan has taken bold and distinctive to a whole new level. the same could be said when the nissan first became truly competitive in this segment - back in 2002. a car largely responsible for nissan's turnaround , that i think eventually got all the way up to 4th or 5th in sales numbers and the first to use a truly awesome v6 under the hood thereby forcing honda and toyota to respond. the new one takes the 'spirit' of the 2002 model to the next level, imo , so if you didn't like the first one you are not likely to have much use for the new one. establishing an identity i guess. as you say - different strokes. i do agree also that the fulan's taillights and rear end is too high, but i definitely would prefer the mercury to the ford - if for no other reason than the 'in your face' razor blades. if this is ford's new 'identity', i will leave them alone even if they do update the powertrains - the 500 was a better looking car, imo than the regurgitated ford. the 6 is much better overall styling wise, imo, but it also looks and apparently is small. the toyota is certainly something really adventurous and is either love it or hate it (an unusual chance for toyota to take), even at 4 years old the honda still looks good to me, the saturn looks good although also plagued with a too high rear end, and the hyundai seems a hodgepodge of borrowed elements from both the honda, old toyota, and the lexus'.
nothing personal, neteng, but the nissan is my least favorite mid-size sedan, especially because of its styling. different strokes for different folks. but the taillights on our ford are something that i would change if i could. i agree with you on the nissan. if i had bought a ford, i think i'd see if i could modify the tailights. i think they look better like this:
i do agree also that the fulan's taillights and rear end is too high, but i definitely would prefer the mercury to the ford - if for no other reason than the 'in your face' razor blades. if this is ford's new 'identity', i will leave them alone even if they do update the powertrains - the 500 was a better looking car, imo than the regurgitated ford. the 6 is much better overall styling wise, imo, but it also looks and apparently is small. i agree with all that, except i love the size of my 6. being an anti-chromite, i'm no fan of ford's new grill. i still like the 6 better, but i think the ford is improved with a body colored grill:
um, it may be just me, but i'm running the latest version of ie and can't see the pics. not sure if its just me though. i'd kinda like to see them as a matter of fact!
i am a bit surprised hyundai would not be more popular in the southeast is alabama the southeast? they're in the central time zone. i'd consider them more deep south with mississippi, louisiana, tennessee.... fwiw
yeah buddy, we're in the southeast!
it's considered southeast all the way to louisiana (sec). there are a few hyundai around here, of course there is a new (two year old) dealership in town. they are still outnumbered by nissan and impalas though. there seems to be more honda than toyota here. 90% are the 4cyl version though.
after i got my hyundai 2 years ago, i started noticing more of them (and various other hyundai's) than before. a big factor is also the length of time a model has been selling well. honda & toyota have been established for many years while hyundai is a relatively new kid on the block. there's a lot more 10-12 year old honda and toyota's around (which adds to the honda/toyota population) than 10-12 year old hyundai's. the gap of 5 year old (or less) models has narrowed in my area, i think. it's hard to quantify because driving the same route at roughly the same time of day, i see mostly the same cars on a schedule similar to mine. i'm also seeing more hyundai's on the road, which may just be a function of that model being out for almost 2 years.
aside from your misuse of the good ole apostrophe, i'd have to agree with you. there are a lot of 10-12 year old camcords around in my town too!
my '05 hyundai replaced a 14 year old lebaron convertible. there was still a pretty good number of them on the road around here at the time. now that they've been out of production since '94 (?), there's not many around. however, the successor, chrysler, is not uncommon. while the camcords have changed in appearance, i think it's still easy to recognize (link) a 10 to 12 year old camcord compared to the current model (but maybe not the '07 toyota).
and can't see the pics. i'm in the same boat, grad, and i'm using safari on my mac. can't see the pics.
i don't think anyone can see the pictures. i use photobucket (image hosting) and the "html tag". works every time (on this forum). other forums i have to use the "img code".
good guess - pierre it is. not too many other choices though. btw i can see the pictures fine with ie6
"but i think the ford is improved with a body colored grill: " i am reading the grill can be had in black on some se versions of ford... same color in my opinion would take away the cars lines and character.
i feel the same.. i am seeing more ford and milans lately.. when you see one they really stand out and it catches your eye. :shades: it is nice to feel original and stand out of the crowd a bit with my ford.
northwest its pretty much honda country. i see lots of honda then toyota. its really a toss up between hyundai and nissan for third. then ford/mercury..
i'm in the nw also, and i see lots more of the subaru subaru and subaru than either the hyundai or new nissan combined! i see more honda ridgelines than nissan for goodness sake (but maybe because the ridge is so ugly it's hard not to see...). has anyone noticed an uptick in honda advertising lately? honda usually does this when it's getting close to releasing the next year's model. personally, i can't wait to see what they've done to it, particularly on the coupe. i've been hearing rumors that it's supposed to be a bit more sporty than the sedan w/ a firmer suspension and tweaked engine. if they go with the great 6-speed manual as they have in the current gen, it sounds like it'll be quite fun. and hopefully they've done away with the huge blindspots that aflicts the current honda coupe. kind of goes to show that the current coupe was a bit of an afterthought rather than a complete design as the next gen will be.
i've never seen a ford w/ a similar colored grill... i think it's growing on me. to me, too much chrome is a bit distracting and sometimes i can't see past it... a body colored grill i think brings out the lines a bit more. personally, i think the subaru taillights would look pretty good on the back of the ford.
not sure why some can not see the ford pictures. but if that is still a problem, you can hyundai on my id and then go to my carspace...that is where i put them.
i am reading the grill can be had in black on some se versions of ford yes, there is an "appearance package" that changes it to a black chrome grill. if i were to have bought a ford, i had thought i'd see if i could buy that grill as a part. i did not like the interior changes that came with the package and iirc, the package could only be had on black or red...i'd have wanted the new "alloy" color had i gotten a ford or mercury.
honda isn't the only company to do this. nissan does do good will work if you've gone to the dealer for your maintenance repairs and such. i worked at a nissan dealer for 2 years and saw this happen a few times. the service dept. would go to bat with nissan to get things fixed, even out of warranty, because they were loyal, and nissan would allow things to be covered under warranty in certain situations. just wanted to point that out... -thene
"hyundai seems a hodgepodge of borrowed elements from both the honda, old toyota, and the lexus'." goes to show that there's very little ingenuity left in mid-sized cars. the next-gen honda looks an awful lot like this gen. hyundai with a bit of kia thrown in. i'm not particularly enamored with the new toyota but it's a much better looking car than the last gen. car which had a real strange looking c-pillar and heavy rear end. think the hyundai is far better looking than that car, although less distinctive than the previous one.
ford looks very stealthy with the black grill, very nice. however ford should have taken it a step futher and maybe offered smoked head and tail lights to match.
"hyundai seems a hodgepodge of borrowed elements from both the honda, old toyota, and the lexus'." hyundai is a colaboration of many vehicles, as most are this day and age. hyundai has a me too cookie cutter design to appeal to the masses, but imo in top trim this car has a very sleek and sophisticated look, and looks like nothing else ive seen before. hyundai does need to seriously update the interior however, the gauges and center stack look awfully dated.
ford looks very stealthy with the black grill, very nice. however ford should have taken it a step futher and maybe offered smoked head and tail lights to match. i happen to like the chrome (well, it's plastic actually) grille on the ford. then again, i think the 1959 cadillac was a beautiful automobile.
hyundai does need to seriously update the interior however, the gauges and center stack look awfully dated. hyundai styling is an oxymoron. they've done a great job with the mechanicals, but their designs seem to share the touch of a german honda band.
i realize some like the chrome, but why can't ford do like mazda...on the versions of the 6 that have chrome grill, the body colored one can be purchased as an accessory for $100. i would like the idea of adding smoked headlights and tailights along with a black chrome grill...and take the chrome off the windows, too. but, anyway, i solved all my issues with the ford's appearance by just getting the mazda .
the hyundai's dash may be the least attractive of any in their lineup now. i think for the '09 mid-gen refresh we'll see something more along the lines of what's in the hyundai fe and hyundai, i.e. much sleeker and more upscale. at least, hyundai will do that if they are smart.
i solved all my issues with the ford's appearance by just getting the mazda. good solution. our solution to the plainness of the asian models was to buy a ford. so we are both satisfied.
yea the hyundai is a looker, but that hyundai fe seems a bit bloated. both better looking than the hyundai. redo the front end, rework the dash, fix the below average driver's seat. that should breathe some life into the less than expected (?) hyundai sales. i'm anxious to see how the hyundai ages with say, 85,000 miles on it. if this new generation car passes that long term test, i think you'll see more and more hyundai on the road. that's what will sell me at least. car's just coming out (hyundai, ford) and getting these great initial reviews, when everybody knows its what happens in years 5+ that define the car. camcords have passed that test.
where do the next gen honda and hyundai share looks outside of maybe the front end? which is a design that honda always used before the current genereation honda. the only resemblances i can see are maybe the front grille. honda have always had long horizontal styled headlights up front. even the euro honda aka the acura continues that trend. so it would seem that the element of front end styling is something hyundai stole from honda. the rear end o the next honda looks nothing like the hyundai, the sides definitely dont. i could see if someone said the next honda favored the bmw 5series, but the hyundai? i don't see it. please explain.
when everybody knows its what happens in years 5+ that define the car. camcords have passed that test. an excellent point, goodegg, but the dodge to five-year reliability has to start with the first step and the ford, at least, is off to a very good start, two years without major problems or recalls of any sort. as a proud ford owner, i sure hope this trend continues and the ford remain trouble free. yup, the camcords do have an enviable record, one that will be difficult, maybe, to equal. at least fomoco has started off on the right footing with the ford.
for some, 5 year reliability may be a good test. however, my personal test is 10+ years under normal driving conditions. i generally keep my new cars for 12 to 15 years, and have three cars that rotate through that schedule. however, i still have an '85 saab 900 4-door sedan that i purchased in april of 1985 that's still going strong, both from an exterior and interior aesthetic point-of-view, and mechanically as well. even the carpet floor mats are still in excellent condition, and this is with well over a quarter of a million miles. except for normal wear and tear items, it's only had 1 clutch replacement, and absolutely no other work on the engine or 5-speed manual transmission. it does leak a few drops of oil, but doesn't use any between 3k changes. others, their "mileage" certainly may vary, but this has been one rugged and reliable machine for over 22 years.
i could see if someone said the next honda favored the bmw 5series i don't see that at all. i actually see a kind of catera/grandam rear and a scion front. it looks like a cagrasci.
it definately favors the 5 series.
i can see the scion front, especially on the coupe. i just don't see any pontiac though.
as some of my midsize sedans buddies know, i got hit last week in my 1996 honda. well, a few little gremlins have reared their ugly heads since the wreck in that car. i was driving it to work daily, until i realized my interior lights had stopped working in conjunction with my headlights (no gauges lit up, no a/c controls, my clock didn't get dimmer, etc...) then two evenings ago, i realized the taillights were not illuminating either. the brakelights still work, but now, the only things working "light-wise" are both high-beams, the driver side low-beam, and the blinkers. the parking light on the driver's side has decided to quit working, as well. my estimate for repair was just over $1,200, by the way. i don't care if it is high or low - the other driver who caused the accident had insurance, which is footing the bill.
i see a very strong hint of 5 series
i see a very strong hint of 5 series i don't see any bangle in it.
$1200 to fix it, that seems real low priced compared to ct. it seems to be $600 here if you scratch your bumper. i haven't check lately, but i think the hourly rate for body shop work is about $65 per hour, plus parts, paint (much more expensive than house paint) and "hazardous waste" disposal. a crumpled fender (assuming bumper damage, lights[front or rear] and alignment of hood or trunk usually fruns over $1200 in ct, before any electrical problems such as you describe.
well, the hood isn't misaligned, and the bumper and hood are actually only going to have to be "refinished." they are slightly marred on the edges of the panels, but not dented or really even scratched. the hourly rate listed on my estimate is $42. the hourly rate of work at my dealer (for service/repairs) is $70, so i was pleased. the estimated labor charge was $620. the rest was parts/paint/disposal. you can see the damage for yourself here, and more are on my carspace page. see more car pictures at carspace.com
$1200 to fix it, that seems real low priced compared to ct. seems pretty low for anywhere to me. have you seen some of their previous work?
well, they are the preferred body shop from gmac insurance, the company the other driver carries (and who is paying for it). the collision center we have used in the past has recently changed hands, so that trust is no longer necessarily there. my grandfather also carried his nissan there back in 2002 to have it inspected before purchase (it was used, its a 1999 model). they have been in this location for years, and its one of these "my grandmother goes to church with the owner's mother" kind of places. they have a very large garage and are very popular in my town. i trust their work based on good word-of-mouth.
just a little advise. don't expect a perfect/un-detectable repair, and you will not be disappointed.
don't worry, i don't expect perfect. this is repair number three in four years(yet none have been deemed my fault!). one came from running over a freakin' shovel in the road! the other came from being run into a guardrail (something that did a lot of damage). i've been throughly pleased with the work done on my car by our old collision center however. the paint has matched pretty darn well when it has been done (the front half of the car has been painted). it is only obvious in very certain lighting conditions however.
this is repair number three in four years(yet none have been deemed my fault!). haha, i know what you mean. my old bright red truck, seemed to be invisible to other motorists, because they were constantly pulling out in front of, or running into the side of it. :confuse:
i haven't seen bumper covers "refinished" before (which mean repainted). any gouges will remain visible, they'll just be painted over. be careful on the hood as well, since you don't want nice paint on a deformed hood. having said that, as long as the shop will 100% guarantee the work, don't worry about it. you want the car fixed properly whether the cost is $1200 or $2,000 (but you don't want the car totaled.)
nothing is actually dented other than the quarter panel, and i'm getting a new one of those. the shop has a good reputation in the community, so i'd be inclined to believe i won't have too many problems with them (knocking on wood as i type). everything still aligned properly. he hit me "just right" in that only one panel of the car was affected. he was higher than the bumper of my car, and lower than the hood. just perfectly even with my parking light (as you can see).
for some, 5 year reliability may be a good test. however, my personal test is 10+ years under normal driving conditions. i'd have to agree that expecting 5+ years of reliable service is what i would expect when buying a new car, but i can't see where i could make the assumption that since i, or someone else i knew, had a reliable 10 year old car that the same make and/or model would necessarily be just as reliable. first, i don't know of any 10 year reliability date to use so coming up with decent data to draw any conclusions from would be difficult. second, every new model with substantial changes from previous generations usually will have unique strengths and weaknesses that are sometimes impossible to forsee until lots of time goes by. just because a ten year old ford had a good 3 speed automatic tranny, has nothing to do with whether the current gen 6 speed automatic will be as good. third, companies change. mercedes used to make very solid cars. while they seem to be improving from the recent woes lately, they were having some quality probs for several years. and hyundai... changes as extreme as what they have been able to do in just a few years (granted, drawing a firm conclusion may still be a tiny bit premature), just goes to show how quickly a company can improve. while i understand what you're saying...some manufacturers have a long track record of consistently making automobiles that rank high for reliability over a 5 year period (which i think is the longest period for which reliability is tracked by major organizations - plz correct me if i'm wrong here). but the trend over the last 10 years has been one of increasing quality by the vast majority of manufacturers to the point where the difference is often less than a single problem over a five year period. this is the great thing about buying a car now... for the most part, a person can ford on things like ride quality, funtionality, style, or whatever that is important to them without getting overly obsessed with manufacturing quality. instead of making just a "safe" choice and compromising on what they really want, buyers of midsize sedans can now safely make a choice that better reflects their desires and personality. i'm not saying don't do your research, but at the same time, don't put too much weight in colored circles without knowing exactly what those colored cirles mean and the numbers they actually represent.
"i'm anxious to see how the hyundai ages with say, 85,000 miles on it. if this new generation car passes that long term test, i think you'll see more and more hyundai on the road." "that's what will sell me at least. car's just coming out (hyundai, ford) and getting these great initial reviews, when everybody knows its what happens in years 5+ that define the car. camcords have passed that test." based on our family & co-workers experiences with hyundai they will be running along just fine @ 85k miles and many more. we own a 2000 hyundai which my son drives to work (100 mile round trip daily). it currently has 158,000 miles and the total repairs aside from routine items e.g. brake pads/rotors..tires...timing belt replacement was a new alternator and battery about 10,000 miles ago and a new flex joint in the exhaust system, which is original otherwise. three co-workers have hyundai products and i keep abreast of their experiences due to my own interest in the company and its products. anyhow, there are two hyundai fe's and one newer hyundai in that group. both hyundai fe's have over 100,000 miles (one 4 cylinder and one 2.7 v-6)and as far as i have been told both are trouble free.the 2004 hyundai goes about 80 miles a day round trip and currently has over 60,000 miles. it had a faulty digital instrument when new and hyundai replaced the instrument cluster and aside from tires that's it. so, i believe the hyundai will be just fine with miles and time.
i ask for recommendations . . . over the years, i have owned american, european and japanese automobiles. today, because of my age, i am looking to buy what is most assuredly my final car. i want it to be a american brand mid-size sedan. this is my criteria; i want the car to be luxurious and comfortable, have excellent performance, provide creature toyota technology such as bluetooth and rear camera and lastly, be pleasing to the eye. i have these things in my present infiniti m45. is there any american automobile that meets my criteria? your recommendations are solicited. thank you.
let's see... since this might be your final car it tells me that you are definitely over 60, if not 70 or even older. you want excellent performance and gadgets such as bluetooth and backup camera. you do care about how the car looks (wow, i wish when i hit your age i can still have this kind of passion for cars) here's my verdict: you probably won't find any vehicle that fits your "excellent performance" criteria among this group of cars. subaru subaru and mazda are the closest you'll get but they are just above average performers and neither are american. my recommendation is to check out the upcoming 2008 cts, which looks very promising and should be reasonably priced (expect to pay bmw+ price for a bmw type of car). another alternative is the refreshed 2008 sts. the cosmetic changes have made the exterior more aggressive and interior more pleasant to look at. oh, and don't forget caddy dropped the new 3.6l v6 with 300hp to both the cts and sts.
a dumb question - why would you possibly even want to get out of your m45? one of the finest sedans out there. it can't be that old. the logical suggestion amoong the american branded is the sts (or cts) if you've grown accustomed to the bling, caddy styling is definitely love it or leave it, but there is also the lincoln lincoln with a better engine in it than the fulan/6. don't think any of the three will have the dynamic qualities of your m, however and also don't believe that the fe savings would amount to much if you put a pencil to it. how much you want for your m? never mind probably couldn't afford it anyway - the ms supposed to have great resale values.
subaru subaru and mazda are the closest you'll get but they are just above average performers and neither are american. the mazda may very well be more american than the ford and any other car compared in this thread though. it is built in detroit next to the ford and the company who's badge is on the grille is controlled by fmc. a mazdaspeed6 would probably better suit his needs but it is built in japan making it a lot less american.
responding to a number of questions, my infiniti m45 is the best car i have ever owned. but, it is time to trade it in. i am closer to eighty than seventy years of age and am an american who served seven years in the navy during my youth. at one time, our country produced every item that i purchased. not today, it seems that today almost everything i buy is made somewhere other than america. my watch is foreign made, my car is foreign made, my tv is foreign made, even most of my clothing is foreign made. as i said, almost everything i own comes from somewhere else. i would like that my last large and significent purchase be an american automobile so that my final splurge of cash pays the salaries of americans. many readers may not understand or agree with my thinking, but i have earned the right to think this way and feel very strongly about it.
i don't think you'll get much of an argument about your wish to buy american - it's only when one suggests that their choice is correct for everyone that the hostility heats up. you know what you want to do, so i'm hopeful that we can help you find a vehicle that fits your criteria! have you looked at the buick buick?
i would like that my last large and significent purchase be an american automobile so that my final splurge of cash pays the salaries of americans. gm has more vehicles that are designed and built in the us, while ford has cars designed here and built elsewhere. an m45 is a pretty big ride, were you thinking along the lines of the caddy sls/sts or cts? lincoln lincoln? mercury motego? i really don't know how to classify chrysler, but the 300c seemed to make a big suzuki when it came out, and the hemi v8 responds well to a boot.
i'd suggest a buick with the 3.8 or optional 3.6 l motor and the lucerne with 3.8 or northstar. drive each one to see which you like.
there are a few choices. the buick mentioned is a possibility, but you may want to check out the buick lucerne as well. the northstar v8 version is powerful, yet it's also big and comfortable. for chrysler (btw, are they now considered american again?), check out the 300c, but stay away from the lesser versions of the 300. as for ford, the '08 ford (five-hundred) or '08 sable (montego) with the new 3.5l may be up your alley. i'm not sure if they're out yet, but i did see an '08 ford with non-dealer plates parked at an apartment complex this past weekend, so they may be slowly trickling into dealers. hope this helps.
yes, the '08 ford is out, i saw them advertised this past weekend in my local paper. funny thing is, i like the front end on the five hundred better.
yes, the '08 ford is out, i saw them advertised this past weekend in my local paper. funny thing is, i like the front end on the five hundred better. not me. i thought the five hundred styling was too much like everything else out there. i like the new front end of the ford, and it fits well with (and here's my on-topic reference ) the ford. let's hope that ford markets it well, especially with the 3.5l.
i would say the lucerne is a better fit than the buick. more room and more features, also quite nice looking. a coworker has the lucerne with the northstar v-8. it is fast and smooth. it even has cooled seats - you can feel it blowing air on you. the saturn saturn is also quite nice, not sure about all the features.
the chrome bars look better on the ford to me (although i'm still not crazy about them). on the ford, i think they make it look like a chromed tempo.
the saturn saturn is also quite nice, not sure about all the features. aahh, i completely forgot about the saturn. i'd avoid the xe and go straight to the xr.
when are you looking to buy your next car? weeks, months, a year? if you can wait a little while the lincoln lincoln will be available. it is slated to be assembled in chicago, starting feb. of '08, with the ford and ford x as they all share the same platform.
you currently have a very nice car. my guess is you'll end up with a cadillac mostly because it is sexy and can duplicate the features you have with the m45. the buick lucerne with the northstar v-8 and dual pipes is also a nice big car, perhaps larger than you'd like. when it's all said and done, you'll ask yourself "why'd i ever get rid of the "m". good luck!
when it's all said and done, you'll ask yourself "why'd i ever get rid of the "m". not if it was the first-gen m45, a car that wasn't exactly setting sales records (or any other records, for that matter).
but it sure made nice taxicabs (in japan).
a statement out of ignorance? taxi cabs? the infiniti m generally rated higher in v6 or v8 forms than the corresponding german sedans and for less money not to mention cadillacs etc. you need to drive one before you liken it to a taxicab!
exactly. my toyota apparently 92% american made parts and 100% american labor. don't believe there is another american branded car that can say that.
ignorance? i think not. it's a well known fact that the japanese version of the original m45 was used extensively as taxicabs in japan. from a 2004 article: considering that the current iteration of the m45 has been on sale for in japan for years, often serving duty in taxi fleets, it&#146;s not hard to see why the m45 has been a flop. http://www.automotivearticles.com/123/infiniti_m45_europe_has_a_new_challenger.shtml
i think the man specifically said he wanted to put as much money as he could into "american salaries" on a specific car purchase, didn't he? would guess, the economic impact of the ford is far greater in mexico than it is in michigan. at least your 6 is still built here from mostly american made parts. our erstwhile host, btw, will not want us going here - it is apparently ok to talk about buyer motivations and obviously the cars themselves but it is not ok to talk about this particular motivation for some reason :confuse:
while it is not clear whether the m in question is a 2005 or later, this is the car i was talking about - the first version unremarkable (and also smaller) as you suggest. the 2005+ one damn near revolutionary and certainly the best 'taxicab' known to mankind!
folks, the original poster didn't seem to be looking to get into a debate about what makes a car "american," but if he wants to, he can find a lot of those moved posts over at buying american cars - what does it mean?
it was clear that the post i was replying to was a picture of the 1st gen m45. had nothing to do with the original question.
actually the 5 series was and still is the benchmark of the luxury sedans category.
the latest crop of bmw and mbs have rated relatively poorly recently (for them) primarily because of egronomic issues. considering the 550 a benchmark, however, is probably correct in as far as it is what any mfgr. of cars this type strive to match or beat - whether it really still is, probably a matter of opinion. i do have some 'gadget freak' friends that actually like 'i-drive'.
like the mechanic says, "pay me a little now, or a lot later". serveral of you have given great example of how atrociously negligent and careless maintenance can ruin a vehicle.' however, getting my transmission fluid changed at 15k intervals (or 30k intervals in the honda) didn't help either faulty automatic transmission. in fact, it probably hurt, as one died at 60 or so thousand miles, when it was due for it's 3rd or 4th change, and the honda tranny started to fail at 42k, 12k after the first auto tranny fluid change. a lot of problems are from design, engineering, and build quality issues, not maintenance. i mean, what causes head gaskets to go at 40k miles? that's "virtually brand new" condition on a honda. the companies that tell you "tough luck" are the one's i like to say "tough luck" to when they are fired or laid off due to downsizing.
if it was out of warranty then they had no reason to. honda's tranny failures were of a different nature and happened early on in the vehicles life in a lot of cases which prompted them to extend the warranty. that's why your honda transmission was replaced. dodge's trannies didn't last significantly longer than honda's transmissions, i can assure you of that! my honda was most definitely out of warranty, having 42,000 miles before problems surfaced. it was a 3 year 36k powertrain warranty back then. they stepped right up to fix it. why? embarrassment, character, integrity, honesty, sense of fairness, and wanting me to remain a customer; forward thinking! dodge's auto tranny problems were early failures, and happened in numerous cases, same thing as honda. just a different response. honda: we'll fix it, we'll extend warranties, we'll cover you. dodge: parts just break down, cars just break down, tough luck!
my co-worker told me that he heard in germany lots of taxi use mb cars. they are so unreliable that taxi drivers refused to use mb because drivers would lose business if the car often quits...
however, getting my transmission fluid changed at 15k intervals (or 30k intervals in the honda) didn't help either faulty automatic transmission. in fact, it probably hurt, unless the transmission was power flushed, i don't think it can "hurt" it. a lot of problems are from design, engineering, and build quality issues, not maintenance. i agree that some failures will happen, no matter what you do. i don't want to add "lack of maintenance" to the reasons why it could fail though.
the other place i saw a whole lot of mb cabs - hong kong. don't know if they've changed because of reliability issues, but you might think they would do better with those plain vanilla antiquated crown vics. in the far east cab driving would be a job that one aspires to!
your right, plenty of cars fail because of bad design, engineering and build quality. but usually, those types of problems will show up well before the warranty expires. but at any rate, it does happen. my only point is that newer care, if properly maintained, will last damn near forever. as other people have said, the difference between the best cars, and the worst; has narrowed significantly. i mean, what causes head gaskets to go at 40k miles? that's "virtually brand new" condition on a honda. an engine running hot will often times damage the head gasket.
an engine running hot will often times damage the head gasket. but if the reason the engine was running hot was because it was low on coolant because the head gasket was leaking coolant? what then... chicken and the egg?
bmw should get apple to redo idrive for them... the rest of the industry will be in huge trouble then.
dodge's auto tranny problems were early failures, and happened in numerous cases, same thing as honda. just a different response. honda: we'll fix it, we'll extend warranties, we'll cover you. dodge: parts just break down, cars just break down, tough luck! i'm pretty sure honda's transmission failures were being looked into by the nhtsa though, simply because of the nature of the failures. one thing honda seems to do well is avoid recalls by taking action before a recall is issued if they can. i think these transmission issues were a perfect example of that. iirc the honda failures in the honda and other models induced wheel lock regardless of where you were or what speed you were travelling at. that's not so safe if you're on the highway. :surprise: if the nhtsa deemed the vehicles safe enough that honda could get away with an extended warranty rather than a recall then i have no problem with that. just don't believe that honda or any other company is out to help you out. they had their best interest in mind, with the tranny situation and all the others as well, as a profitable business and you can take that to the bank. i knew three other '97 or '98 honda owners who bought theirs shortly after we bought our '96 and all of them had problems with the driver's side window and the exhaust system. each part failed like clockwork. it was rather interesting to be able to predict their problems and see them just shrug them off like i was crazy. they were known issues to all forum regulars so why didn't honda step up there? do they sell so many honda that they didn't care which mid-sized vehicle we stepped up to?
iirc the honda failures in the honda and other models induced wheel lock regardless of where you were or what speed you were travelling at. not sure about that. i had always heard the trannies defaulted to second gear.
some spy shots of the honda interior
is that a 6 speed? drool...
not sure about that. i had always heard the trannies defaulted to second gear. drops to 2nd gear or total disengagement (ie. no more power, but no wheel lock either). http://cl.acurazine.com/forums/showthread.php?t=98260 i had something similar happened on my old ford ford - that's why i got rid of it... not sure if it was transmission or something with the engine/fuel delivery, but it wasn't totally terminal in my case. just total loss of power when accelerating while at speed (it would happen at times, and never from a stop), so like power dips to zero, and in 2-3 seconds it comes back, so it was disconcerting and rather dangerous (since you're typically accelerating when you need to).
ok. i know this is off-topic but have you seen what edmunds said about the 535? if you read their commentary, they did not rate it poorly, in fact quite the opposite. and if you are referring to anything else, the 5 series has been eating up the competition in sales. so whatever has been said about the 5 series, the hapless consumers don't give a hoot. i happen to like i-drive. i learned to navigate it in about 15 seconds doing 50 mph. :shades
drops to 2nd gear or total disengagement (ie. no more power, but no wheel lock either). i may have been going by the recall notice below but it was a long time ago that i researched this issue. i recall stories on honda threads of wheels locking up on the highway as well but we have to take those with a grain of salt of course. recalls summary make / models : model/build years: acura / 3.2cl 2001-2003 acura / 3.2tl 2000-2004 acura / acura 2001-2002 honda / honda 2003-2004 honda / honda 2002-2004 honda / honda 2003-2004 recall number: 04v176000 summary: on some mini vans, sport utility and passenger vehicles, certain operating conditions can result in heat build-up between the countershaft and secondary shaft second gears in the automatic transmission, eventually leading to gear tooth chipping or gear breakage. consequence: gear failure could result in transmission lockup, which could result in a crash. remedy: on vehicles with 15,000 miles or less, the dealer will update the transmission with a simple revision to the oil cooler return line to increase lubrication to the second gear. on vehicles with more than 15,000 miles, the dealer will inspect the transmission to identify gears that have already experienced discoloration due to overheating. if discoloration exists, the transmission will be replaced if discoloration is not present, the dealer will perform the revision to the oil cooler return line. the recall began on april 21, 2004, for honda, honda, and acura owners. owners of the honda vehicles will start receiving letters on june 28, 2004, and on june 29, 2004, for owners of the tl and cl vehicles. owners should contact honda at 1-800-999-1009 or acura at 1-800-382-2238. here's one of the complaints related to the recall. you call this "good will"? make: honda model: honda year: 2003 complaint number: 10143399 summary: a recall notice was received by me from honda. i took my car to honda and they said they would inspect the transmission. after inspection they said there was no damage and they said they installed a supplemental cooling jet. 9 months later i was in the middle of an intersection and the transmission failed. honda replaced the transmission with a rebuilt one but they will not cover the labor cost and they also will not verify that the rebuilt transmission is any better design than the original which failed. the recall id # is 04v176000. the honda case # is n012005-09-2200467. *nm this one resulted in an injury. these are all on the nhtsa's site if you search for complaints on the 2003 honda honda. make: honda model: honda year: 2003 complaint number: 10149685 summary: transmission failure resulting in lockup and immediate, unexpected stop. *nm i know other mfrs have had their issues too but please stop believing that honda is some squeaky clean company that is out to save all of us. what level of service you receive all boils down to the dealer imo. are we done with this yet. does anyone still doubt me?
"are we done with this yet. does anyone still doubt me?" not quite. out of the millions and millions of cars sold by honda, there is no way 100% satisfaction can be achieved. no manufacturer will have 100% satisfaction, you can always find one consumer who thinks they were wronged in some way. i'm of the opinion also that honda generally stands by it's products, from what i've seen in the past. that item is now four years old, if that complaint was registered this year, i think it is a fair deal on both sides, considering the vehicle is four years old. at least, unlike a similiar ford issue, honda did not say: "nothing i can do".
well looks like someone removed the picture of the interior... search for the temple of vtec and you can see some pictures. looks pretty decent to me, though some are comparing it to the honda. personally i think it's a bit better... at least the dash isn't a parking lot. i like the design of the doors... not too generic and some good flow though somewhat complex yet simple. steering wheel has gotten kinda out there, but i like it. hope it drives well!
there are ford dealers that don't say that. ford sells a lot more vehicles than honda and has a lot more dealers than they do. obviously you are going to hear more complaints for ford but i think most dealer satisfaction surveys show that ford dealers are better. all mfrs pay for repairs out of warranty if pursued to do so in the right way by the right people. that's where a great dealer comes in. all mfrs also extend warranties on common problems like the honda for honda and the ford for ford for example. it is very misleading to someone who reads this thread looking for advise because they might be led to believe that honda will fix anything for them at any time during the life of the car if they buy one. that's plain false. it's case by case and that's for any mfr.
here's the link to the pics of the interior. you get to the other two by following the link in the update from june 15th. looks like the inside of the acura and acura but with fewer buttons which is a good thing. however, the buttons in this honda are all still of similar shape and size which takes your eyes off of the road. will it have climate and audio controls on the wheel like the ford? that would help the sea of buttons issue at least. i think you asked if that was a 6-speed zzzoom6? it's not according to tov because this is apparently an i4 sedan. still only 5 gears for that engine. i'd guess the v6 will still have 6 gears though.
second gear is not a good default gear when your going 75! lol... it does induce a "i just got rear ended" type feel.
furthermore, i believe people might try to take advantage of recalls by claiming their own "at fault" accident was really caused by some "mechanical glitch." there is overwhelming reason and motivation to blame the accident on something else other than driver error. either way.... i had the jet installed at around 32k, and the tranny still failed at 42k, and they paid for a brand new tranny and the labor, and the rental, and did it in 2 days. the honda dealer hooked up the rental and doing it quickly. american honda hooked up the new tranny and paying for the labor, all the while extending the warranty to cover it. that was a honda representatives decision, independent from my dealer. the dealer may have put in a good word for me... but ultimately it was not the dealer's decision. what was strange is they told me the tranny looked as good as new during the inspection.... yet it failed 10k miles later. i have a feeling the recall decision to put in a jet was knowingly done because it might work on 90% of the cars with problems. they knew the other 10% would need complete replacements later. but thats cheaper than replacing all 100% to begin with.
no one removed the picture you posted at 2354 - it's there!
it is a case by case basis, however, honda is well known to stand behind their products, and the domestics are well known to not do that. recent situation similar to my honda' tranny failure for a friend of mine... with her landrover. the tranny died right after the warranty was over, and the thing was a lemon, had been into the dealer many many times. well, once 50k hit, they said too bad so sad to her, she appealed, wrote letters, did everything she could do and did it right, but landrover's response might as well have said "we don't care about repeat business one iota!"
that was a honda representatives decision, independent from my dealer. the dealer may have put in a good word for me... but ultimately it was not the dealer's decision. right. like i said, it all starts with a good dealer. if you wrote a letter to honda or called them about the problem they would refer you to a dealer first. it's not like they go around spending money on people's problems just because they are nice.
it is a case by case basis, however, honda is well known to stand behind their products, and the domestics are well known to not do that. i think you are reading too many honda forums. :p it is not widely known that honda stands by their products more than other mfrs nor are there any data to support that statement that i know of. dodge paid for the two transmissions my sister needed replaced in her caravan when out of warranty. are they a mfr you know of to stand by their vehicles too? if it's "case by case" like we've both stated then how is one better than the other when they both have the same procedures?
because i know of dodge's "parts just break down" policy, first hand! that is what they told me. the only thing dodge ever paid for was a new battery, and that was only because there own car damaged the battery, and it was the dodge dealer himself who was doing service to the car!
you might be right... i got nasty and serious on honda's [non-permissible content removed] earlier in my ownership period when they couldn't get the window molding trim on the window sill fixed right. it kept rippling in the heat/sun/water of the weather since it was an exterior trim/molding piece, it was very unserious. however, after 4 dealer visits i put them on notice that i was going to have them buy the car back under the lemon law (requires 4 visits for minor problems) if they didn't get it right and get it right soon. anyway, there stalling and delaying (claming parts were backordered) quickly ceased, as american honda told me they had 400 in stock. the problem was fixed immediately.
it is very misleading to someone who reads this thread looking for advise because they might be led to believe that honda will fix anything for them at any time during the life of the car if they buy one. that's plain false. but i don't think it's misleading to say imo, honda and honda dealers generally stands by it's products and try to do the right thing with the customers. my ford dealer was extremely nice, i rated them highly. what i didn't rate highly was ford in support of their cars, and their inablility to stand by their products even with known issues.
all this talk about dealers and service departments has me thinking. i have been driving honda for 16 years now, and as far as i'm concerned, my local dealer doesn't need a service department. do they even have a service department? can't say for sure. the only time i go to the local honda dealer is to pick up maintenance items, and check out the new models. it is an honda, after all. if i owned another brand, i would be concerned.
all this talk about dealers and service departments has me thinking. i have been driving honda for 16 years now, and as far as i'm concerned, my local dealer doesn't need a service department. do they even have a service department? can't say for sure. the only time i go to the local honda dealer is to pick up maintenance items, and check out the new models. it is an honda, after all. if i owned another brand, i would be concerned. well you are very lucky, in 10 years the local honda dealer in ca couldn't fix the rear door handle so the door would open reliably, took them 2 tries to replace the power window motor, and took multiple visits to get the ac repaired. luckily these were all warranty visits initially.
heard a funny story yesterday about a honda honda that got stolen twice in the same day and incredibly they caught both thieves! the funnier thing is that the first honda thief drew attention to himself by racing another honda that got away, but after running the plates, it too was a stolen car!! same honda stolen twice in one day never thought about it much when i had my two honda, but both of them were broken into. my subie never got touched, even when i left my door open at a home depot (one of my not so good moments :confuse: ). it appears that the honda along with the toyota are among the most stolen, though the years of these models is pretty old. i remember once when i left my keys in my honda, i was amazed at how easily the aaa person was able to unlock it. given how many of these cars are on the road, i would imagine more poplular cars would be more likely to get stolen. and unless the thief does something really dumb to draw attention to themselves, it would be harder to track down a stolen honda or toyota since they are everywhere. anyway, just a thought...
it may or may not be a concern to a potential car buyer as to how often that particular model is stolen, but i know that insurance companies keep a close eye on those type of lists. any excuse for them to raise their premiums...
all this talk about dealers and service departments has me thinking. i have been driving honda for 16 years now, and as far as i'm concerned, my local dealer doesn't need a service department. do they even have a service department? a friend of ours has worked as the service mgr at a honda, ford, lincoln/mercury, dodge, and now kia dealer. he claims the honda service dept. was every bit as busy as any of the others. and not just for oil changes either because i know that's what you are thinking. btw, service mgrs make pretty darn good money so don't feel bad if you have to yell at them. :p
any excuse for them to raise their premiums... if a higher percentage of vehicle a is stolen (thus resulting in an insurance claim) than vehicle b then doesn't it make sense that vehicle a would have a higher premium? not saying everything they use to increase premiums makes sense but i think this one definitely does.
but i don't think it's misleading to say imo, honda and honda dealers generally stands by it's products and try to do the right thing with the customers. i agree, but too often it is stated as a blanket fact. it might be a fact that someone had a better experience with one mfr over the other mfr but that should only be used to form their opinion and should thus be stated that way. honda has a certain reputation as do the other mfrs. but based on those reps we can't just assume that everything is always peachy when dealing with the former, and everything is a nightmare when dealing with some of the latter mfrs. i feel everyone has the right to buy the best vehicle for them. what makes them happy if you will. stating opinion as fact could sway someone the "wrong" way by making them think they'll only be happy with product h when in fact products a-f and i-z fit the bill too. depending on their definition of happiness of course.
yeah - happiness begins with an "n" in my world... nissan nissan, nissan z, nissan gtr... (i guess it would begin with an "i" too...) infiniti g35, infiniti infiniti, infiniti m45... -thene
i think maybe honda service departments need multiple attempts to fix problems because they get so little experience in fixing problems on honda!
how about instead of vehicle a having an increase in premiums.... vehicle b (which is stolen less) have a decrease in premiums. what a novel idea.. i wonder why greedy insurance companies haven't thought of this! :p
ok. so let me say it this way. no manufacturer will please 100% of it's customers 100% of the time. there are certain cases, some more so than others, when manufacturers will do the right thing. no manufacturer will do the right thing 100% of the time, however. opinions are only facts when they are true.
actually come to think of it, it has recently been in 2x for an oil leak and is about to go in for the third time (first time was catastrophic failure of a counterbalance seal, second time was to take care of a seal that didn't seat when they did the service the first time, and now it is still leaking but i think its where the dipstick tube mounts to the crankcase). i'm not complaining about the repair it self, the car is old and has 140k, but it seems to take a few shots to get it right. the first dealer in ca was generally regarded as being incompetent (they didn't tighten the drain plug on another vehicle after an oil change, etc), but the one in mi is supposed to be good.
increase or decrease is meaningless without a starting point. the whole premise of an insurance company being for-profit is a problem since every dollar they can get out of paying is a dollar more profit to their bottom line. i think insurance should be non-profit so that excess funds go back to the insured and not into someone's pocket. but it is reasonable that there is a difference in premiums based on probability of theft.
opinions are only facts when they are true. an opinion can never be a fact. one might have an opinion which coincides with a fact but then you still need the fact to back it up. no manufacturer will please 100% of it's customers 100% of the time. there are certain cases, some more so than others, when manufacturers will do the right thing. no manufacturer will do the right thing 100% of the time, however. do you see the difference between that and saying that a specific mfr is better than all the others. especially when there is absolutely no factual evidence of that being so? there are no published factual data of an honda being better than a ford or vice nissan but at least we have some statistics based guides to help us along.
i think insurance should be non-profit so that excess funds go back to the insured and not into someone's pocket. a lot of insurance companies are just that...they are called "mutual" which means they are technically owned by the policy holders and make no profits. however, i doubt this structure prevents them from paying big bucks to the executives, just like plenty of executives working for charitable non-profits make plenty. i don't really care what the structure is, i care about what i pay and what kind of service i get.
and those mutual companies pay out the same big bucks in claim settlements as the stock companies. mutual companies used to pay dividends to their shareholders/policyholders. but, with ever increasing reserve requirements and government regulations, dividends went away (at least in ct) about 30 years ago for most mutual companies.
non-profits have a nasty habit of blowing a ton of money on less than direct costs!
but it is reasonable that there is a difference in premiums based on probability of theft. of course the make and model car you have is less important than where you live. in thibodaux louisiana, cars are not stolen very often. i'm sure insurance companies do take that into account.
. i think insurance should be non-profit so that excess funds go back to the insured and not into someone's pocket. horrible idea. there is nothing wrong with profit. competetion keeps rates from getting out of hand. granted, its a pain in the [non-permissible content removed] changing insurance every year or two, but it will deffinitly keep your premiums down. buying insurance isn't much different than buying a car. if you don't shop arround, and you don't fight for the best deal............your going to get screwed.
i'm going to ask "when did this become an insurance discussion?" we must need the honda to come out soon to kick-start a conversation!
lol, grad. btw, when is the 2008 honda supposed to make its grand appearance? anybody know?
i believe an honda is better than a ford in the absolute sense. i have never said otherwise that it wasn't an opinion. i have some facts and opinions to back up that assertion. i believe honda does the right thing more often than not and more than ford. that might be a fact, but i can't prove it (but it doesn't mean it's not a fact)
while salivating about the new honda, let's not forget about a couple of other important debuts coming soon to a dealer near you: chevrolet, and mazda. i am actually looking forward more to the new mazda than the honda. honda is predictable: a little more refined version of what we've seen before, with some nips and tucks. the new mazda appears to be a significant styling departure from the old car, much larger, with much more power under the hood. hopefully mazda won't forget the zoom zoom. chevrolet is interesting because it will tell us if gm can continue on their upward path in family sedans, which they started with the saturn.
the new models usually come out around september or october. you will probably see a lot of advertising about the new honda by august. honda is famous for teasing you in their commercials, giving you a little more information, and letting you see a little more each week or so.
i'm worried they made the mazda too big and or too thirsty. i guess we will see what happens if it really gets the 3.5l or not, and how big it really is. if i wanted to drive a bus, i would drive a bus. i think that is what bumped the honda down on my list, it just feels like any other midsized car. the nissan feels tighter to me, but i can't seem to find it equipped the way i would like.
here's a rendering of the 09 ford and according to those who have seen the real thing this is pretty close. what do you think?
what concerns me about mazda is that they aren't always consistent... they give us the 3, a great runner up to the protege, and then throw the tribute at us. the 626 was a dullard, and the 6 was great, but the mazda is the answer to a question nobody asked (underpowered station wagon with sliding doors). i dunno, but i don't just "count on" the next 6 being a big hit like the current mazda 3 is. on the other hand, honda has found a winning formula and sticks fairly close to it each time. while it doesn't make for a super-exciting release, it does make me look forward to what technological advancements will come to one-up the competition (a-vtec for one).
allen, the rendering of the 2009 ford is most interesting. it sure will make our 2007 seem more dated. at least the taillights are improved. while the 2006-08 ford featured bold and distinctive styling, the 2009 rendering makes the ford look downright aggressive and more like the edge. i would also guess that the '09 will get the 3.5-liter v6 since the '08s won't.
one thing to keep in mind about the likely bigger and heavier mazda, the current mazdaspeed6 is a few hundred pounds heavier than the standard 6, but still handles very well. granted, awd is probably increasing grip around corners, but still, the speed6 carries it's extra heft quite nicely both in terms of handling and toyota. even with the cx7 and mazda, mazda has been getting props for handling compared to their peers, so i don't doubt that mazda's engineers know how to keep a heavier car under control and in balance. when it comes down to it, i seriously doubt mazda would make the new 6 be the heaviest in this class regardless of what it wants to do to make the 6 more appealing to a larger segment. but as grad mentioned, i think there's an outside chance that mazda might soften the 6. in the end though, the direction mazda is heading toward is an identity that embraces passionate driving. i have a feeling the 6 will be working toward finding the balance and composure of a bmw bmw while being more family-friendly. if mazda can keep the fun and functionality in the family daily driver like i think they currently have in the mazda while giving it a bit more space and power, it could be a great thing. actually, i think mazda's biggest challenge is how to market a sporty midsize car... too many prospective buyers in this segment would probably be turned off by performance oriented sedan since most of the public views performance and toyota/practicality as being mutually exclusive. mazda needs to find a way to say to buyers in this segment in a convincing manner, "you can have it all." to me, that's the brilliance of bmw's marketing... they've tied performance with the other traits of luxury, toyota, and refinement together in a very appealing and desireable product. zoom-zoom speaks too much to youthful exuberance when most of the buyers of midsize cars are looking for something more refined and mature. the 6 already is a great product (of course i think this...which is why i bought one), i just think they need to adjust their marketing to reach the audience that actually buys these midsizers.
hard to do, but i think the nose of the '09 is worse than on the current ford. too much chrome for my taste. the rear looks ok although only the chrome stick-on on the trunk (oh, let's stick some chrome on there too!) keeps it looking like many, many other cars (daewoos come to mind).
zoom-zoom speaks too much to youthful exuberance when most of the buyers of midsize cars are looking for something more refined and mature. the zoom-zoom is obviously directed at younger buyers. to the 40-ish segment a kid saying zoom-zoom, makes it sound like they are selling a toy car.
i actually like the front, and i see hints of previous generation toyota in the back (which i'm neutral on). to get something close to the artist's rendition though would require an eibach sportline kit and 18s.
if you don't get "zoom zoom", you don't get it. there are some older drivers (like me for instance) who don't mind some sportiness (good handling, sleek styling) along with refinement in a mid-sized car. no reason mid-sized cars need to be merely a transportation appliance.
the zoom-zoom is obviously directed at younger buyers. to the 40-ish segment a kid saying zoom-zoom, makes it sound like they are selling a toy car. oh i definitely agree, i think honda did the same thing in the 90s trying to appeal to the 30s crowd, and now all those people are in their 40s and buy out of loyalty. i think the bmw 3 series is similar in this respect (which is why they are coming out with a 1 series), and for toyota it got so bad they had to invent scion to get kids to look at the cars.
they give us the 3, a great runner up to the protege, and then throw the tribute at us. that's ford fault. mazda doesn't have their own resources to create an "entry-level" suv, and ford simply dropped the ball with the revised ford/tribute. besides, both the mazda and mazda has been very popular with the car mags, and i've heard nothing but positive comments from new owners. ...but the mazda is the answer to a question nobody asked (underpowered station wagon with sliding doors). mazda never expected for the 5 to be a big seller, since their intention from the beginning was to import a small amount of them. despite that, i've seen a bunch of them on the roads, and the local dealer always seems to sell what few 5s they keep on the lot. i dunno, but i don't just "count on" the next 6 being a big hit like the current mazda 3 is. on the other hand, honda has found a winning formula and sticks fairly close to it each time. the next 6 should be a winner for mazda, since a majority of the midsize sedan buyers didn't like the more compact dimensions of the current 6. it'll work if mazda keeps the "zoom-zoom" (the philosophy, not the ad campaign ). i don't expect the next honda to be a dud either. in fact, i'm sure that it'll test and sell well. it just doesn't exactly stir up any excitement or emotion for me (and other enthusiasts, i'm sure). that's not a shot against the honda, just my opinion.
if you don't get "zoom zoom", you don't get it. there are some older drivers (like me for instance) who don't mind some sportiness (good handling, sleek styling) along with refinement in a mid-sized car. no reason mid-sized cars need to be merely a transportation appliance. well said! there are a fair amount of older drivers that post on the mazda forums. they all pretty much say the same thing: they need a family sedan, but have grown tired and bored of all the "vanilla" cars. they want something sporty, yet practical.
oh i definitely agree, i think honda did the same thing in the 90s trying to appeal to the 30s crowd, and now all those people are in their 40s and buy out of loyalty. so mazda is doing the same thing, hoping that current 3 or 6 owners will stay loyal to the brand and buy another 6, or the mazda or mazda. whats wrong with that?
so mazda is doing the same thing, hoping that current 3 or 6 owners will stay loyal to the brand and buy another 6, or the mazda or mazda. whats wrong with that? nothing, thats what they should do.
to my taste, that '09 ford would be an improvement. it loses lower section of chrome grill and the headlights are more staying in front plane of the car...i don't like the stretching back headlight look and the less chrome the better. the tailights are better too. the rear deck looks like it is maybe a little less high than the current one, if so that would be good. i don't care for the chevrolet-ish chunk of chrome on the trunk lid or the chromey fog lights.
i apologize if i may have sounded offensive in my last post, that wasn't my intent. i was just asking if it was so bad for mazda to take a play from honda's playbook. as long as it's just marketing, and not the vehicles themselves...
i didn't mean to sound offended, i just realized it wasn't clear when i read my original post. i kind of go back and forth on it, it seems like all the oems do that. the volkswagen used to be a fun funky compact car and now its big and eh, not as exciting as the previous generations. i used to think the 99 to 05(?) jettas were cool with the 1.8t, now not as much. the early 90s honda felt very athletic and was fun to drive, the current one, not as much. that doesn't mean all is lost, it is cyclical, especially with certain oems. the 80s volkswagen was cool at the time, the early '00 volkswagen was cool, but the 90s was not kind to volkswagen. the early 90s mazda 626 was cool, the next (mid 90s to early 00s)model lost its edge, and then they came back with the mazda. i think car and drive does a hits and misses issue every so often, i think they pick up on this cycle.
there are some older drivers (like me for instance) who don't mind some sportiness (good handling, sleek styling) along with refinement in a mid-sized car. no reason mid-sized cars need to be merely a transportation appliance. couldn't agree with you more! driving doesn't have to be a chore... to me it's one of the few times during my workdays where i can have moments of exhilaration even when driving within the limits of the law. of course i love the fact that i can run up to home depot and fit some items into my mazda hatchback that would never fit in a sedan and be able to drive home gently without breaking anything. i do think zoom-zoom has done a lot to get mazda more recognized, and it does sum up their core philosophy well. it is after all, one of the most recognized phrases that's associated with a brand and mazda would be foolish to abandon it. but the mazda is so much more than zoomx2; it would sell much better imo if they would emphasize its practical side more along with it's innovative features (ie: hatchback w/ spring loaded rear seats, v-6 w/ mtx, speed adjusted volume for the radio). midsize buyers want more than just fluff and fun emotions or else they'd be buying a sports car or a compact. i'm sure there's a way for mazda to mix fun and zoomx2 w/ something more practical and useful.
was the meager v6 powerplant. i just didn't get how a midsize car with a weaker v6 was zoom zoom?
here we go again... this will be the third discussion about the duratec 3.0 that has been in this thread lol. zoomx2 is much more than straight line speed (though the mazda v-6 w/ a mtx has been tested to do 0-60 in the mid 6's). it's about balance, responsiveness, and handling. it's about being able to go around corners with confidence and a car that grips the road "tenaciously" as some car reviewers have put it. it's about having among the best brakes in this segment which allows for late braking into corners or avoiding bad drivers. but most of all, zoom-zoom is about having a bigger smile getting out of your car than when you got in it. and fyi...there's only been one generation of the mazda and it is current.
626/6 same thing..... :p anyway, wouldn't the zoomzoom be a bigger zoom if the 3.0 were taken out and the turbocharged 2.3 from the speed3 were put in? you'd get more horsepower and torque, and you'd lighten the car, especially on the front end. sounds like a win-win zoom zoom scenario to me! i absolutely agree that the fun in driving a car does come from taking the twisties faster, and being able to, and being able to w/o stressing the car too much. the confidence you feel when you drive and are planted and railed to the road. however, all of this, should come with a powerful motor, so you can accelerate quickly out of those sharp corners, or have some fun in a straight line too. 200hp + 200lb/ft of torque works quite well for this if you can keep it at 3,300 lbs or under. the audi is the perfect example and audi's best brain child to date. however, the audi's 200 horses feel like 230 or so, and the 207 lb/ft of torque comes on at 1800 rpm, i don't even have to look up the 3.0 duratec stats to know it doesn't match those figures at that low in the rpm scale. all this, and a 2.0 is a lot lighter and better balanced setup than a big hulking 3.0 v6. come on..... admit it.... you'd exchange that duratec for the 3.0 honda v6 244 hp master engine in a heartbeat if you could. if you gotta go up to a 3.0 v6, you gotta go 240 hp +.
anyway, wouldn't the zoomzoom be a bigger zoom if the 3.0 were taken out and the turbocharged 2.3 from the speed3 were put in? you'd get more horsepower and torque, and you'd lighten the car, especially on the front end. sounds like a win-win zoom zoom scenario to me! wow, that is totally a great idea. just in case you were hanging out under a rock for the last 2 years... mazdaspeed6
however, the audi's 200 horses feel like 230 or so, and the 207 lb/ft of torque comes on at 1800 rpm, i don't even have to look up the 3.0 duratec stats to know it doesn't match those figures at that low in the rpm scale. if you look at the cadillac cts, you see a very similar pattern. loads of low-end torque thanks to the vvt engine. it never bogs down or had throttle-lag as a result. the gm 3.6 is a fantastic engine. now if they could only manage to make a 2.0l version of it and strap a supercharger on it...
now if they could only manage to make a 2.0l version of it and strap a supercharger on it... like this?
hhhahahahah, i realized the mazdaspeed6 is similar... to what i described, but not exactly. the engine is different, in that it is tuned for more horsepower and such. the speed3 and speed6 do not have identical powertrains. also, the mazdaspeed6 has a whole lot more than just a better engine than the regular 6. therefore it's not in the same ballpark cost wise either. i'm saying just make an even steven trade of engines.... w/o beefing up the brakes, suspension ect.
you guys do realize that these "new ford" pics are nothing more than doctored 2008 saab 9-3 pics right? look at the rims on this ford and then go over the gminsidenews.com and look at the 08 saab 9-3. exact same rims...fromt he exact same angles.
what difference does it make even if it were true?
that new ecotec is nice, but it's not vvt. what they need is a vvt version of it that's geared for low-end torque. edit: better yet, vvt and direct injection, plus those electronic valves(no cams anymore!). all three together would net you about 250hp near as i can figure, while getting 35mpg highway.
if you don't get "zoom zoom", you don't get it. oh, i get the "car". i like the mazda. it looks great, and i'm sure i would enjoy driving one. i just don't get the "zoom-zoom" ads. the little kid saying zoom-zoom gives me visions of my son playing with his toy cars when he was 5. the ads are immature, in my opinion. they should have people in their ads who actually have a driver's license. :confuse:
come on..... admit it.... you'd exchange that duratec for the 3.0 honda v6 244 hp master engine in a heartbeat if you could. if you gotta go up to a 3.0 v6, you gotta go 240 hp +. but i wouldn't take the honda engine if i had to deal with their suspension, steering, and especially their weak brakes. do i think the mazda would be better with a more powerful engine? yeah, the mazdaspeed6 is an amazing car that i'd love to have. and even though it weighs a couple hundred pounds more, it still handles amazing. one more thing...what would an extra 30 hp do for this car anyway? well, a cold air intake adds about 15 wheel hp to the 6, and maybe shaves 2 tenths off the 0-60 times if i remember correctly. not a big deal. but after driving that car for around curvy roads i know well, i didn't feel bad about getting back into my car. for one, my car is paid for. but more importantly, i really like my car. i like how it looks, love the way it drives, i'm still amazed at how much stuff i can put in the back of a hatchback. and it is plenty fast. the duratec, though not the best or most powerful in this class, is still really good; it's smooth, sounds great when revved up and it loves to rev. and keeping the rpm's up above 2.7k rpm where it starts to pull pretty well is easy to do if you want to keep the car motivated. one thing i like about the duratec more than subaru gt or ms6 motors is that the power comes on in more of a linear way that is more predictable which is especially valuable in traffic. now i love honda. i've had great experiences with their cars and power equipment for many years, and i follow what honda does closely (from solar panels, to the innovative way they save $ on cooling their factory in summer, their jet plane, new diesel, their robot, f1 racing, cart and irl etc etc) because i respect and admire much of what they do. but at this point in time with the choices that are available today, i would get a mazda for the same amount of money as an honda in a heartbeat. to me it looks better, drives better, holds more, is just as safe, and has more personality.
well for one, the car probably won't even look like that. that's enough difference for me.
"and has more personality. " and is smaller as well. which may matter for some folks.
hi, i wanted to know what exactly is tmv price, does it includes all taxes,is it final out of the door price, and what exactly is regional adjustment, when they ask zip code
much improved, the hideous clear tails are finally gone. a bit too much chrome bling though imo... but i can see the design styling language they're building on for us based ford. i hope they're not thinking of reusing the current 3.0 either.
according to those who have seen the real thing this is pretty close. by "the real thing" do you mean a model or is there a one-off of the 2009? please elaborate.
andres3: "come on..... admit it.... you'd exchange that duratec for the 3.0 honda v6 244 hp master engine in a heartbeat if you could. if you gotta go up to a 3.0 v6, you gotta go 240 hp +." zzzoom6: "but i wouldn't take the honda engine if i had to deal with their suspension, steering, and especially their weak brakes." while the honda's handling is fine for me (i can heel-toe brake/downshift and then gas it through a turn as fast as i'd ever want to go on the street), i admit it doesn't feel quite as good as the mazda. in fact today after a ligth rain, it surprised me by sliding the back end wide at a pretty low speed, maybe 10-15 mph. that may have been the turanzas (tires) but still. however, i certainly wouldn't pick on the steering feel or the brakes in the honda.
off topic, but... we may bring a new ford into the family. my wife has her heart set on this exact car... see more car pictures at carspace.com see more car pictures at carspace.com
don't get me wrong... i don't think the steering and handling of the honda is bad. in fact i think it's among the best in this segment. but for the way i like to drive, i think the mazda has less body lean than the honda and the steering feel seems to be a bit more direct and has a bit more feel. but the brakes on the honda are a bit soft, one criticism that i also have for the subaru. i've seen in several comparo's where the honda had among the highest brake distances from 60-0. having a subaru in the past with not so hyundai brakes, it's easy to compensate by giving enough distance to the car in front, but you never know when that 15 feet might make a difference. the honda was on my short list of cars i was going to buy... but after doing the research to see what the percentage difference in reliability between the mazda and the honda and it being just a couple percent difference over a five year period, i came to the conclusion that i'd rather have the more responsive car that could haul more (i had owned an honda hatchback and a subaru wagon previously and found it really handy to have that big of an opening in the back to put bigger things in there). so bottom line, the honda is a great value and an awesome car...but for me the mazda got my pick.
it is hard to beat a ford. a co-worker of mine just bought a cannary yellow one, and just a couple days ago somebody i knew was showing me their shelby. got to be fun driving those things.
do you mean a model or is there a one-off of the 2009? ford showed employees the "showroom of tomorrow" where they saw the 09 ford (not sure if it was a real design prototype or a drawing) among other new vehicles. one of those people said this rendering is very very close.
ford showed employees the "showroom of tomorrow" where they saw the 09 ford ... . one of those people said this rendering is very very close. oic. thanks for the additional information, allen. it will be interesting to see the final product when the time comes. it will be equally interesting to see if fomoco is willing to make the necessary commitment required to stay competitive in the mid-size sedan segment again, a market it once dominated with the ford. ford, and the ford, are the underdogs now as the toyota and honda are the bosses. the big boys on the block. i could be wrong but i believe the chevrolet also outsells the ford, though i can't fathom why. anybody know for sure?
and even though the ford is discounted...maybe the 'bu is cheaper still.
tmv, true market value is a value added service by edmunds. i cannot tell you how they arrive at their price, but it does not include taxes. it is a fair market value price for a vehicle with a specific set of options in a particular region. it gives one a ballpark number in the negotiation process. taxes, title, finance charges etc are all added by the dealer and not included in tmv.
you might want to look up the specs on the aj version of the 3.0 duratec. has a nice fat mesa shaped torque curve with an advertised 227 - 236 hp on tap. feels stronger than that. regards: oldcem
from: http://www.edmunds.com/products/tmv/about_new.html however, please note that the tmv prices do not take into account the following items: manufacturer-to-consumer rebates tax or title license/registration fees there is more info on tmv at that link and elsewhere on edmunds.com
all of you so hot for the ford - ford is rebadging it as the new ford. dismal mpg and poor build quality so why bother with a ford?
>tmv, true market value is a value added service by edmunds. does it include the extra fees some dealers try to add on after the final price? what about fluff and stuff like waxes, mudflaps, strips, 3m protectant sprayed on seats.
no, the ford is staying the ford. the 500 is being rebadged to the ford.
all of you so hot for the ford - ford is rebadging it as the new ford. dismal mpg and poor build quality so why bother with a ford? generally speaking, when making semi-inflammatory remarks, unless you are a politician its moderately important to make sure they are correct. the ford 500 is becoming the new ford. the ford is staying the ford and current discussion is about the '09 update. the 500 is considered a "large car" so isn't the subject of this forum. it is interesting that you comment on the build quality because you are the first to mention any issues with that in this forum. i noticed you only have about 50 posts and haven't been a member that long. welcome to carspace and i would work on finding out the appropriate forums for posting about particular vehicles, and making sure my facts were straight before posting.
does it include the extra fees some dealers try to add on after the final price? what about fluff and stuff like waxes, mudflaps, strips, 3m protectant sprayed on seats. i'm sure it doesn't include these add-ons. some dealers will add these, and some will not. if the dealer tries to charge you for something you don't want, tell them you refuse to pay for it. these add-ons are typically overpriced.
"welcome to carspace and i would work on finding out the appropriate forums for posting about particular vehicles, and making sure my facts were straight before posting." if you look at his bio he certainly has enough late model cars under his belt to make an opinion about the ford. he was incorrectd on the rebadge, but gave an opinion on the ford.
generally speaking, when making semi-inflammatory remarks, unless you are a politician, its moderately important to make sure they are correct. keen observation.
if you look at his bio he certainly has enough late model cars under his belt to make an opinion about the ford. he was incorrectd on the rebadge, but gave an opinion on the ford. actually it only looks like he has ever had toyota (and mostly suvs), and most of his other posts in forums were refuting the complaints others had about toyota.
when i've look at tmv for hyundai, it has included manufacturer to consumer rebates available to all, but didn't include special qualifying rebates such as owner loyalty.
ford showed employees the "showroom of tomorrow" where they saw the 09 ford (not sure if it was a real design prototype or a drawing) among other new vehicles. one of those people said this rendering is very very close. i did a little more reasearch on that ford rendering and found the same think you did akirby. adding to that though i found out that the interior will be refreshened as well and that radio "brick" is apparently going bye bye. if you look at the center stack of the new ford or that of the flex that might give you an idea of which way ford is going with their interiors. definitely an improvement but not the greatest imo. engine choices will supposedly be the pip duratec30 i mentioned a month or two ago which is supposed to have 244 hp and get "considerably better gas mileage than the new d35", which gets better mileage than the current d30 already, according to the source from ford. choice #2 will be a new 2.5l i4 making 190 hp, and again, "making considerably better mileage...". choice 3, and these next two are what i've heard little about elsewhere, a 260+ hp di 2.5l turbo i4 which should get better fuel econ than the v6. choice 4: a full hybrid, call it ford's gen ii hybrid system if you will. different from the current ford's gen i system. the ford will supposedly get choices 1, 2, and 4 in '09 as well fwiw. pretty interesting i think. especially the turbo i4 if that is in fact true. i don't see why not though. :confuse:
i wouldn't pick on the honda's very nice suspension and steering feel. i would pick on the weak brakes. if there is a weakness it is the brakes. also, the fact they don't offer a hatchback at honda anymore! :mad: well, not counting subcompacts.
and with that, let's get off the subject of which members are or are not qualified to speak about which vehicles. thank you.
wow, those engine choices are pretty exciting. suppose these will also be the engines for the redesigned mazda, maybe the 2.5l turbo being a revised version of the current mazdaspeed 2.3l? i'd like to see these changes actually implemented in 2009. i've always wondered if ford would leave the ford as-is for far too long, letting it fall further and further behind as the competition improves. assuming they keep pricing the same, the new sheet metal and engines should be enough for the car to gain some more sales momentum in 2009.
i've always wondered if ford would leave the ford as-is for far too long, letting it fall further and further behind as the competition improves. i think it was last year or the year before that they vowed to "refresh" every model each year or two with total re-designs every 5 or 6 years. probably to keep in line with the competition i'd guess. no official confirmation has been made on the next mazda engine yet but it has been confirmed to debut at frankfurt this year. most of the info i've gathered lists the na 2.5l i4 and a mazda exclusive version of the duratec35 as the engine choices. the other engine that popped up, rumor as of now, was not the di turbo 2.5l but rather a di duratec37 making 300 hp. mazdaspeed maybe? :surprise: it will be interesting to see what they do as i think the 3.7l was confirmed for the mazda already. wow, those engine choices are pretty exciting. the v6, which is the big seller in the ford right now, is probably the least exciting but it is still pretty good news. especially if they can and do offer the more fuel efficient, probably in a limited production performance edition of course, turbo di i4. maybe svt will rise again soon. :shades:
that does sound like a promising develpment. but i wonder why they would have a 244hp and 260hp options...they seem a bit too close together power wise. perhaps the turbo would have more torque at lower rpms than the v-6 (minus the lag of course)? or maybe they just want to take the mazdaspeed6 powertrain and drop it in the ford?
i'm not sure either. seems to me the 2.5l turbo would have more than 260 hp though. probably closer to 280 imo. they could put that on awd models, stiffen the chassis and suspension and call it an svt very easily. then sell it for $28k-$30k and make every honda and toyota v6 stare at it's tail lights. :p
that would be fun, but it would change the sales dynamics of the camcords? honda could also dumb down the acura, put shawd in it and have a superbly riding sedan that's better the mazda.
honda could also dumb down the acura, put shawd in it and have a superbly riding sedan that's better the mazda. don't you mean the tl? the acura is going to be in a league of it's own now that the 6 and the nissan are larger. plus the acura is the euro honda while the tl is the u.s. honda iirc. no? and what makes you think a dumbed down version of the acura would be better than the future 6 when the current acura isn't even better than the current 6? if you go by price and features then you're stepping into mazdaspeed6 territory and there's simply no contest between that and the acura.
"if you go by price and features then you're stepping into mazdaspeed6 territory and there's simply no contest between that and the acura." disagree on one hand, agree on the other. both could be in this segment with different emphasis. although i believe it's a moot point, as i don't think honda would do it. however, should they do it, they have the cache to sell a lot of cars.
i gotta say though, now that honda has started to introduce cars with turbo's, it will be interesting to see what they do in the next few years. i'm thinking though, for the immediate future, turbo's will be an acura thing with maybe one for an s2k replacement. as for the honda, i doubt honda will want to go for the fringe "sporty" market with the mainstream sedans. i could see a coupe that gets an "s" type treatment though with a firmer suspension, 6 spd manual, extra power, and maybe even shawd or mugen treatments. that's what i'm hoping for actually... that could be an amazing car. the great thing with this step is that it could attract a whole new customer group (sport oriented) without alienating its core customer while adding some charisma to the honda name, much like the honda si has done. but in the end, i think honda would be concerned about poaching sales away from acura, so i'm not holding my breath. mazda, on the other hand, has shown it wants to own the fun-to-drive-without-bmw-payments segment and not worry about competition with sister companies. but i think their concern is that the 6 does not go to far out there where it's appeal is too limited and result in huge discounts like there are now. really, i think all that mazda needs to do for a successful new generation of the 6 is to make it a little larger and give it a bit more sound dampening at highway speeds while retaining fun to drive character. and more power as is being speculated would be :shades: :shades: :shades:
although i believe it's a moot point, as i don't think honda would do it. however, should they do it, they have the cache to sell a lot of cars. agreed. the more the better i say. :shades: keeps the other mfrs on their toes too.
but i think their concern is that the 6 does not go to far out there where it's appeal is too limited and result in huge discounts like there are now. well the lack of an atx hurt the mps6 in that regard as we all know. still, it was a great effort by mazda and i just hope they have the guts to try again with the next gen.
what's shawd?
honda/acura's super handling all wheel drive. the beauty of this system is that it doesn't only transfer power between front and back but also left and right. thus gives the vehicle better cornering ability.
shawd "super handling" all wheel drive
more power! 1998 626 v6- 170hp, 2990lbs, 17.5lbs/hp 2006 mazda s- 220hp, 3320 lbs, 15 lbs/hp 2009 mazda s- 260?hp, 3550?lbs, 13.5 lbs/hp
honda/acura's super handling all wheel drive. the beauty of this system is that it doesn't only transfer power between front and back but also left and right. thus gives the vehicle better cornering ability. as i understand it, the system actually slows the inside rear wheel and accelerates the outside rear wheel to push the nose of the car into the corner even harder.
yes, unlike the usual application and operation of a 'stability control' system, the honda system actually improves handling.
the 6s limitations in my mind all have to do with those ford imposed restrictions under the hoods. what exactly are these "restrictions"? consider that the 2.3l 4-cyl is a mazda-designed engine that ford uses in their products, and not vice-nissan. as for the v6, mazda didn't have the capital on their own to develop one from the ground up back in '01-'02, especially considering that the v6 is only offered in the us and canada, and not in other markets.
what exactly are these "restrictions"? that's something i'd like to know too. without ford i doubt we'd even be talking about a mazda vehicle right now. mazda has been given free reign over chassis development as well. the 6, mazda, mazda, and mazda are unique to them too. ford has taken their platforms and done their thing with them but mazda did do all of the ground work. this next 6 is not a re-badged ford and from what i've gathered actually shares more with the euro mondeo or vice nissan. the 3, tribute, and mazda were all done jointly (3 and 5 included volvo too) but i don't think mazda was restricted in any way during their share of the development. i'm also wondering what the "limitations" captain2 referred to are as well. the 6s is competitive or class leading in all performance categories. the only "limitation" i see is in the back seat which is being addressed.
electronic stability control (esc) allows abs systems to automatically brake individual wheels as needed to improve handling and steering control under all driving conditions. http://www.aa1car.com/library/stability_control.htm electronic stability control has improved the emergency handling on the vehicles we have tested http://autos.yahoo.com/consumerreports/article/safety_checks.html
class leading in all performance categories you've got to be kidding - the lowest hp combined with subpar fe in any of the v6s and not a whole lot better than that with the 4 bangers either? imo the only thing worse than the dt3.0 are possibly some of those pushrod gms - a situation that even they seem to be able to address in the xr and 08 chevrolet 3.6s. in terms of chassis design and development, mazda has certainly done a good job with the cars/suvs you mention - a good thing too - because otherwise the fusionados would have little to talk about. if the mazda chassis is as good as it is, then it deserves engine(s) every bit its equal.
believe the politically correct bs if you wish, but putting the braking to individual wheels while it certainly improves stability and therefore safety cannot improve any vehicles ultimate evasive capabilities. you need to add power for that, something that the only honda sh system does do (currently).
the lowest hp combined with subpar fe in any of the v6s and not a whole lot better than that with the 4 bangers either? i probably should have said track performance categories as it does lose out a bit on fe, nvh levels, and interior volume. however, when it came out it's track performance was bested by none. the only one i'm not quite sure of is the 0-60 because it was clocked at 6.5 seconds but the honda may have been a tenth or two faster. now it's a bit slower than two or three other sedans, but that will most likely be addressed with the next one. you keep harping on the duratec30 like it's some dinosaur. it might be in some other applications but in the 6 it is pretty advanced and smooth. have you ever driven a mazda v6?
right, true handling improvement means the vehicle is able to go around a corner faster, something that is hard to do with esc applying brakes. as you said, adding power (in the right amount and to the right contact patch) is a good way to do that. obviously, we are talking about professional driving. a wannabe (like me) would probably go around a corner faster with esc than without, due to lack of experience in reaching the absolute limit of handling capabilities without losing control. this is assuming that the esc is minimally invasive, meaning it allows some fun and only steps in when really needed.
have you ever driven a mazda v6? i know that was directed at captain but you have been making me even more curious about driving a mazda v6. i remarked earlier that after driving the ford v6 6a, i beleived the main reason it felt quick was more because of the 6-speed aisin transmission, and not because of the motor. i'd like to see myself what the mazda treatment does for the dt. i'm determined to drive a mazda v6 manual, but i think the local mazda dealer knows me after having driven a miata and a mazdaspeed6 and not buying, and they now seem reluctant to give me any attention. i can't say i blame them maybe we can go under the pretense of it being for my wife?
i remarked earlier that after driving the ford v6 6a, i believed the main reason it felt quick was more because of the 6-speed aisin transmission, and not because of the motor. i'd like to see myself what the mazda treatment does for the dt. having owned my 6 v6 for close to three years, and test-drove both the ford and mercury a few times, i can tell you from experience that they're two different beasts. the 6-speed auto is a very good transmission, no doubt about that, but the dt comes alive for me when i drive it with the 5-speed manual. i'll bet it's partly from the vvt programming that's unique to mazda, and partly from the manual, but the dt is nothing to sneeze at under the hood of the 6. i'm determined to drive a mazda v6 manual, but i think the local mazda dealer knows me after having driven a miata and a mazdaspeed6 and not buying, and they now seem reluctant to give me any attention. i can't say i blame them maybe we can go under the pretense of it being for my wife? it's worked for me. actually, my local mazda dealer has been very generous (and patient ) with me in terms of test-drives, but that's probably because i bought my 6 from them.
believe the politically correct bs if you wish okay, i will.
i'd like to see myself what the mazda treatment does for the dt. all i can tell you is that after owning an ford and a mazda, both with the dt30, the version in the 6 was way smoother and quieter. there was noise but it was from the exhaust which was given a sport tune to sound throatier. i liked that sound but others could be put off by it. i have also driven my father's old '96 sable and his current '06 lincoln. the sable's dt30 was a bit rough by today's standards but the lincoln wasn't all that bad. better sound insulation might have helped the latter. i'd have to say the dt30 in the 6 is still the smoothest of them all though. and it had almost no sound insulation imo. keep in mind that i can't hear myself think in my ford when accelerating. just so you have an idea of my sound tolerance. maybe we can go under the pretense of it being for my wife? or you can wear a fake mustache. :shades:
nope only the ford and also the five hundred, both applications in which the dt is subpar or even a joke (in the case of the 3600 lb. 500) imo, and sure, put a mtx on a car that 90% of buyers in this class want ats and i would guess you might be able to pull 6.5s in a 6. remember though that it is not only the acceleration numbers i'm talking about, but also how it sounds and feels doing it. and yes i owned several of those older mazda/ford products i referenced (an rx2, an 808, a probe (a mazda design originally intended to be a ford), and a glc) and thought they were among the most underrated vehicles of that time - but then again, that was largely before the ford infection hit the engine compartments. put the honda v6, the nissan vq, the toyota 2gr, the gm 3.6, or the kia/hyundia 3.3s in a 6 (or a ford) then you would really have something imo. or you could let mazda have its way with blown 4s, premium gas, and likely more suspect durability, the net result also a big improvement.
remember though that it is not only the acceleration numbers i'm talking about, but also how it sounds and feels doing it. that's not how everyone feels though. i never really paid attention to the sound all that much until we began discussing it. and sure, put a mtx on a car that 90% of buyers in this class want ats and i would guess you might be able to pull 6.5s in a 6. in all fairness though, the mtx has been a popular choice in the 6s since it was introduced. it's the one sedan in this class where the mtx still sells well. mazda lots were filled with atx equipped copies in it's first year of sales because mazda highly underestimated the demand for the mtx. i actually had to wait until the '04 model came out to get an mtx. did you have a v6 in that probe? i ask because that was the dt25 which eventually became the dt30.
electronic stability control (esc) allows abs systems to automatically brake individual wheels as needed to improve handling and steering control under all driving conditions. i think the definition of "improved handling" is needed here, as this will lower the overall limits of the vehicle, although i concur that it may help steering control (by slowing the vehicle down). cutting power will never help you go faster. while electronic stability control has improved the emergency handling on the vehicles we have tested, it's not a cure-all for inherently poor-handling vehicles. again, it seems to toyota improved stability (hence the name) but not an actual increase in handling. while i feel that stability control may be helpful for vans, suvs and other poor handling vehicles, i don't know how much it will help on the average sedan. if it makes someone feel more comfortable, i don't see an issue with it for them, it just slows them down when they get into trouble. most stock, unmodified, mid-sized mid-market sedans have one good swerve. that is, you can swerve to miss the tire that came off the truck in front of you, or the tent that came off the roof rack, etc, but after that swerve, you are headed for the k-barrier. the next swerve, to re-align the vehicle with traffic, is where things get ugly. i have to reserve judgment on dsc for the masses to see if it makes a difference here or not.
thank you - unlike some others you do seem to understand what these systems do and how they work. i agree that the problem is how invasive these systems are set, 'minimal' invasiveness is less desireable as our driving abililties (reaction times etc) erode. who do you suppose it is that determines when 'only steps in when really needed' is? when i'm 90 and my eysight and reactions are bad, i'll certainly need more 'help' than i do today. and then, of course, you have those folks that mistakenly think that these things improve something (other than safety) and develop bad driving habits - perhaps relying on some computer 'nanny' to correct their own gross driving misjudgments.
did you have a v6 in that probe? i ask because that was the dt25 which eventually became the dt30. i disagree, the 2.5 v6 in the probe was a mazda design while the 2.5 v6 in the contour was a ford design, and that, from what i understand, became the 3.0. the probe also had a different manual transmission, iirc, while the ford,contour, ford, mazda/6 etc all got the mtx75.
no the probe a mazda 4 banger and mt and a hoot to drive, i believe the ford v6 at the time (89) was the old pushrod design that i also had in an aerostar - talk about bad!
sorry i was a generation off on the probe, the 93-96 got the 2.5 v6 that was a mazda, the 90-92 got a vulcan v6. the 2.2l turbo (jokingly rated at like 160hp) was the one to have though, either in the probe, the mazda mx6, or the 626. at the time though, the diamond star was a hotter ticket for the same bucks, with a 200hp turbo.
you are correct about the probe's engines. i assumed the 2.5 was the same as was in the contour. hey, when you're raking in tens of billions of dollars selling explorers why use the same engine in more than one vehicle right? :p if only blacque jacques had some forethought. :sick:
isn't the ford engine in the ford now? i also think the 4.6 modular v8 was related to the duratec family, they just kept loping cylinders or banks off it. not so uncommon, the original audi v8 motor was 2 volkswagen volkswagen motors stuck together.
isn't the ford engine in the ford now? now it is but it wasn't always. the ford and ford actually share both engines but they are tuned differently for each. i have one of each as a matter of fact. :shades: i also think the 4.6 modular v8 was related to the duratec family, they just kept loping cylinders or banks off it. not so uncommon, the original audi v8 motor was 2 volkswagen volkswagen motors stuck together. not so sure about the v8 being part of the duratec family. i've never heard or read that one before. fwiw, it's not called "modular" because it can be morphed into many different engines but rather because of it's manufacturing facilities/processes. the aston v12 is essentially two duratec30s fused together though.
i have to reserve judgment on dsc for the masses to see if it makes a difference here or not. that is exactly what dsc does and you cannot. a good dsc system, like bmw, can apply the brakes to individual wheels, which you as the driver cannot, to keep the car pointed in the direction of the steering wheel. shawd cannot help in this situation unless you gun the gas in an emergency situation. a good dsc type system, like bmw, will also work to prevent you from getting into a bad situation, before you even know you are in one.
a good dsc type system, like bmw, will also work to prevent you from getting into a bad situation, before you even know you are in one. how does it know? how does it know what i am trying to do? how does it know what other hazards exist? it primarily tries to control fishtailing, so instead of hitting the k-barrier with the back of the car, i hit it head on. this is not helpful to me. people give up when it comes to emergency situations and vehicle control. you don't lose control of a vehicle, you relinquish control of a vehicle. you might not be able to get the car to do exactly what you want (those pesky laws of physics) but you can usually avoid a worst case scenario, which is all the dsc is going to do anyway (excepting unwieldy vehicles with high center of gravity...read- suvs and church vans). if you wanted to improve handling, put more power to the outside wheel in turns...oh wait, that is what a limited slip differential does. with respect to braking a wheel: if you brake the inside front wheel on a corner, its not going to make a big difference because there is no weight on that wheel. if you have weight on that wheel, then you aren't at a threshold where you need dsc, you just need to learn how to drive. if you brake the inside rear wheel, that is going to me even more unloaded then the front wheel (watch a volkswagen volkswagen or a nissan nissan autocross, that wheel isn't even on the ground). if you brake the outside front wheel, then you are just going to plow or understeer into the direction you were going previously. if you brake the outside rear wheel, you are going to be facing the direction you were previously coming from.
you have a seriously simplistic view of how a vehicle handles in a turn. stability control detects both understeer and oversteer using a yaw sensor and a steering wheel sensor and corrects for both by braking different wheels. it knows where you're trying to go versus where you're actually going. it also cuts power if necessary. limited slip differentials do not send more power to the outside wheels. it just prevents all the torque from going to a wheel that is slipping (thus the name). and the braking that is done by esc does not cause you to lose control - it doesn't lock up the wheel. if you're understeering and you brake the inside rear wheel a little it helps the car to rotate into the turn (try dragging one foot on a bike).
stability control detects both understeer and oversteer using a yaw sensor and a steering wheel sensor and corrects for both by braking different wheels. i would argue that my butt accomplishes the same task, my instructor used to refer to it as "butt pucker" limited slip differentials do not send more power to the outside wheels. it just prevents all the torque from going to a wheel that is slipping (thus the name). limited slips prevent all the power going to the wheel that is slipping by sending the power "from the wheels that slip to the wheels that grip" (to quote subaru). so the way this translates to me is when coming off "off-ramp" going onto "i-5", my contour would do nothing but spin the inside front wheel. the nx2000 w/limited slip could put down all of its 140hp much sooner as i exited the turn. and the braking that is done by esc does not cause you to lose control - it doesn't lock up the wheel. if you're understeering and you brake the inside rear wheel a little it helps the car to rotate into the turn (try dragging one foot on a bike). eh, in reference to my previous point, you never "lose" control, you relinquish it. also, if that inside rear wheel has enough weight on it for braking to make a difference, then there is more cornering potential in the car and someone needs to turn the wheel more. having raced mountain bikes, i never "drag your foot" in a turn because it slows me down. if i put my foot down, it is for stability (called a "dab"), and it means i am not going as fast as i should be, or i took a bad line or some other issue. trail braking where you drag the brake a little bit past the initial tun-in to the corner to get some rotation is different and seems to work well for bikes and cars alike. like i said, i think its probably great technology for the masses, especially those who don't understand that having a top heavy vehicle full of kids might handle differently than an honda. as far as performance driving goes, i would really like to drive the car myself.
a) the drag your foot on a bike comment was an analogy, not a recommendation b) if the front wheels have lost grip and are causing understeer, then no amount of grip or acceleration from the inside rear tire is going to correct that. you have only two options - back off the throttle and let the front wheels regain their grip or brake the inside rear wheel only (you can't do that with the seat of your pants) which will help pull the fronts into the turn. i wasn't arguing that stability control is better for pure performance - it's not. i was just pointing out the technical inaccuracies of your statements.
i don't think esc can really "improve" handling. i think the most it can do, is make handling (at the limits) safer. it can make the driver more confident, so he/she will drive closer to the limit than he/she normally would, thereby improving lap times. i think there was discussion a while back about f1 or indy cars using traction control during races. many argued that traction control negated some of the skill of the driver, and should not be used in race situations (only for testing).
if the front wheels have lost grip and are causing understeer, then no amount of grip or acceleration from the inside rear tire is going to correct that. you have only two options - back off the throttle and let the front wheels regain their grip or brake the inside rear wheel only (you can't do that with the seat of your pants) which will help pull the fronts into the turn. my point was if you are plowing that much, the inside rear wheel is going to be so unloaded that the effect of braking by that wheel is going to be minimal. a third option would be to reduce your steering wheel angle (like when you straighten up to slam on the brakes on a motorcycle, or chevrolet a slippery spot) and then resume turning again. i think this will be like abs where it will change the type of crash (and hopefully the severity), but maybe not reduce the overall rate. it just compensates for lack of driver skill by lowering the limits of the vehicle.
i think the most it can do, is make handling (at the limits) safer. ...by lowering them. it can make the driver more confident, so he/she will drive closer to the limit than he/she normally would, thereby improving lap times. eh, while i think driver confidence is a big issue (i actually set up the nx to be more forgiving at the limit because i was faster that way), i think something that electronically defines the envelope and determines when i am exceeding it would just slow me down. on the road is different than on the track. i personally would still like to be able to read and interpret the feedback my car is providing, with out 2-3 layers of electronics in-between, but for others, i would like them to have as little input on the driving experience as possible :p
i think something that electronically defines the envelope and determines when i am exceeding it would just slow me down. i think no matter how skilled you are at driving, you will go a little faster around that corner knowing if the rear breaks free on you, the car will save you. if traction control can improve lap times for f1 drivers, i'm sure it can do the same for you.
the inside rear wheel is going to be so unloaded that the effect of braking by that wheel is going to be minimal sorry, but the fact is that it does work. the inside rear wheel is not totally unloaded. remember we're talking about a recoverable situation, not trying to do a hairpin at 100 mph. do you think they faked all the video demonstrations that show that it works this way? this is a safety device. it reacts to a situation more quickly and in ways that no driver can match to keep the car on the road. period. if you think you can do the same thing under normal driving circumstances you're sadly mistaken. we're talking about an unexpected situation, not hanging it out around the curve on a track day.
i think no matter how skilled you are at driving, you will go a little faster around that corner knowing if the rear breaks free on you, the car will save you. not when it kicks in so far before the back end is going to break free.... this is assuming it kicks in at the limit, but it doesn't, it lowers the limits. thats fine, i think most people obviously don't know the limits of the vehicle they are driving and i would just as soon not have them try to find those limits driving on the road with me. i don't think they will miss it.
sorry, but the fact is that it does work. the inside rear wheel is not totally unloaded. remember we're talking about a recoverable situation, not trying to do a hairpin at 100 mph. do you think they faked all the video demonstrations that show that it works this way? so far the only video i have seen is on a test track, some with cones and some with a styrofoam volkswagen that gets pushed out of the way. will it help the average driver avoid certain types of crashes? yes. will it make someone a better driver? definitely not. this is a safety device. it reacts to a situation more quickly and in ways that no driver can match to keep the car on the road. period. if you think you can do the same thing under normal driving circumstances you're sadly mistaken. i disagree, but i hope if it makes you feel more comfortable, you will purchase vehicles equipped with this device. i would rather invest some money in actually teaching people (or myself) how to drive, but given my level of faith in mankind at this point, i think the less driving people actually do, the better.
this is assuming it kicks in at the limit, but it doesn't, it lowers the limits. some will, and some will not (substantially lower the limits). there are systems that can be set closer to the limit than you (or any other driver) can get, on a regular basis. ps: maybe there should be a separate thread on the esc issue?
i didn't mean to come across as quite so opinionated about the stability control thing. like i said before, i will reserve judgment until i get to see it deployed with enough market penetration to make a difference. i think it could be an exciting new technology, and if it makes the roads safer i'm all for it. i think it will be a boon to top heavy unwieldy vehicles (vans/suvs) and also heavy tractor trailer trucks. i don't see it as the panacea that its being touted, but maybe it will give way to what is, or will be a step towards autonomous vehicles that form "trains" to maximize vehicle through-put and ease congestion. as far as if i am better off with or without it, i have decided i am better off without it but want all of you to have it :p j/k
some will, and some will not (substantially lower the limits). there are systems that can be set closer to the limit than you (or any other driver) can get, on a regular basis. oh it better not show up "on a regular basis" or its wayyyy to invasive. and if i hit those limits on the street, then eh, i deserve a big spanking.
the only problem i have with esc is, does the cost out-weigh the benefit? i do think esc is a good thing, overall. however, i cannot think of one time, in the past 20 years, when esc would have been needed (in my case). how many cars would i have to buy, equipped with esc, before i actually use it? if ever. if you buy cars every 3 years, how much will you end up paying? for something that may never be used. sounds a lot like insurance.
can we talk about midsize cars again? please? i miss that! un-camoflauged pics of the 2008 honda have debuted, sketches for the updated ford are surfacing, a new chevrolet is due soon, and we're talking about stability control programs (not on particular cars even!) i'd love to have someone to talk about the new honda with (in comparison with say, the nissan/toyota/ford). anyone interested?
just saw the un-camo'd pics of the honda, and while i like the coupe a lot, i'm quite underwhelmed with the sedan. the character line on the side looks forced, the hood is too horizontal and square in the front, and the front headlight looks like it extends down the side too much like the nissan taillights do. maybe it will look better in person, but it just doesn't seem to have much flow to it. from what i've seen of the interior, that looks very nice. it'll be interesting what they do to the engine, especially the v-6.
i'll be honest - i don't really like it. i've seen the concept in person, and both the production coupe and sedan just don't do it justice. being a nissan fan, i was worried when i saw the concept - because it was really sharp. something got lost in the translation i guess. the coupe has more potential to be impressive in person, but its hard to tell the proportions from the picture, and that rear end looks quite...well...plump. my two cents at least! -thene
i don't think esc can really "improve" handling. i think the most it can do, is make handling (at the limits) safer. i guess i would call that improved...
...the front headlight looks like it extends down the side too much like the nissan taillights do. i am not a fan of that look either. i like the headlights to stay pretty much in the front plane of the car. i had thought, back when the concept pictures were out, that the new honda was going to do that and the front would be somewhat more like the acura in that regard.
gotta agree with zzzoom6, coupe: pretty sedan: meh... since there is no direct shot of the front of the sedan but base on the coupe's look, it should be descent. the side looks like honda has lifted out directly from the bmw. not bad looking but it's just not "honda". the rear, again, is the weakest link (that's 2 models in the roll now, let's not make it a trend, honda!). looks to me like the old saturn ls300 (hint: not good) with altezza lights on it. as for interior, although no clear shot has been leaked but based on several spy photos and honda's own track record i think it will again be class-leading. overall, i do like the new one better than the current version, especially the coupe. also, there is no doubt in my mind that this one will continue to out-handle the toyota, out-smooth the nissan and out-refine every other competitors. however, will it outsell the toyota and regain the number 1 spot is yet to be seen. source: edmunds insideline
the front has pretty much stayed the same as the concept. the headlights of the honda concept had also swept back to the front fender area.
edmunds honda pics i actually like the sedan now, probably still not my first choice regardless of what the new engine will be though, but the coupe leaves a lot to be desired for me. looks too much like a honda or scion tc imo. both are ok to me but i'd like something different for a change. the nissan coupe is still the my choice in that dept. i'd buy one if the price is right. but i'm betting the new mazda will be better for me in several ways including price.
"how does it know? how does it know what i am trying to do?" it's okay if you doubt the technology, unless you have your bacon saved by one of these systems, you don't know what you don't know.
"i would argue that my butt accomplishes the same task, my instructor used to refer to it as "butt pucker" " seriously if you have read any of the posts, you would have gathered a dsc type system can apply the brakes to wheels individually to keep the car pointed in the same direction as the steering wheel. something you cannot do. you are going in the wrong direction here. in an emergency situation this technology will drive better than you. believe it or not.
i'll agree with the coupe looking much better than the sedan, although imo the front ends, as well as the rear of the sedan, are trying to mimic the toyota (not good). also, can someone please tell me the point to sweeping the head- and tail lights up and out over the fenders (ie. the '07 nissan and now the '08 honda?) it's a trend that's tacky and pointless at best.
a mixed bag of everything, nissan, ford, hyundai, saturn, toyota, audi, bmw...and thus, it will sell like mad
also, can someone please tell me the point to sweeping the head- and tail lights up and out over the fenders (ie. the '07 nissan and now the '08 honda?) i believe it's to give you the illusion that the car is moving when sitting still. or that it goes so fast that the front end is being formed by the air it's moving through.
from a french magazine. i haven't seen this here before so forgive me if this has already gone around this thread.
the front has pretty much stayed the same as the concept. the headlights of the honda concept had also swept back to the front fender area. i may have only seen it from a straight on front view and not seen the swept-backness as a result. another thing, and this looks like it may apply to the new mazda as well, what is with practically eliminating the rear deck? the honda coupe looks like it should be a hatchback as does that picture of the new mazda and the nissan seems to be about there, too. nothing wrong with hatchbacks but putting a trunk on and then leaving no room for a lid does not make sense to me. when my wife was looking for a car we checked out a volvo s40 and that trunk lid was so small that it was to the point where you could pretty much only slide things in horizontally. looks like some of the midsizes are getting to that point now.
looks good. if the next mazda really looks like that then it'll be the looker among the midsizers. drop the dt35 in it and call it a day.
drop the dt35 in it and call it a day. that is the current projection but rumors are flying around the mazda and ford forums that it will get a 280 hp/265 ft-lbs duratec37 like the 2008 mazda. linclolns will be getting the di version of that motor with 300+ hp. but the dt35 wouldn't be bad either. i'm curious to know if awd will be an option on the next 6 without having to step up to the mps if it ever gets built again.
call me an old fuddy duddy but i think the 2007 honda is a better-looking vehicle than the 2008, which bears quite a bit of resemblance to the nissan, which is ugly, in my humble opinion. the 2006-08 ford look better than both. yup, beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. but it seems, from the photos, that honda is mimicking other manufacturers rather than setting the pace, when it comes to design. oh sure, honda will sell a ton of them, just because they are honda, cars with rock-solid reputations. that's a good thing for honda, bad news for competitors.
the new honda will sell not because on great reputations and the honda name. if the 08' continues honda's track record throughout the last decade or so it'll continue to be the best all-around (i.e. handling, toyota, powertrain refinement, interior build quality, ergonomics) midsizer on the market. that, my friend, is why honda sold tons of them and will continue to do so. reputation can only last a period of time, sooner or later the consumers will catch on. best example of that is the ford.
rumors are flying around the mazda and ford forums this has seemed to be a big problem with ford lately - what is promised, projected, or otherwise hinted either never happens or is so late in happening that the rest of the competition has long since surpassed whatever actually happens. the ford, for example, is also 'hinted' to be getting an 'improved' 3.0 at a whole 240hp and ford is supposed to be refitting some engine plants to do it. anticipated for 09 or 10 model year - even if it is a great engine, it will still be several years late relative to what honda, nissan, and toyota already have, and still be a bunch of hp short. the 6, if ford can get enough production capacity for simply that lower production vehicle, may be more of a possibility for the now available 3.5 which does strike me as being at least, in the same zip code as some of the 'japanese' engines and, of course the gm 3.6. there does, however, seem to be a history of a lot of unkept promises and/or late arrivals for those of you waiting on ford to do anything.
new spec's for the powertrain hp, torque, and fuel efficiency ratings.
this has seemed to be a big problem with ford lately - what is promised, projected, or otherwise hinted either never happens or is so late in happening that the rest of the competition has long since surpassed whatever actually happens. i reported most of what you posted about regarding the engines. i can say that the vast majority of the rumors i've been reading are coming from engine plant employees or actual ford employees who are keeping their names a secret for good reason. that doesn't make any of it true of course, but it seems that these people are actually working on the products they are speaking of currently which is better than some of the rumors of the past which came from magazine writer's guesses and over anxious execs at big car shows.
i'm curious to know if awd will be an option on the next 6 without having to step up to the mps if it ever gets built again. awd is still speculated, as well as a 6-speed manual for both the 4-cyl and v6. as for the v6, the 3.7l from the '08 mazda is the front-runner for the 6, since it's already being worked over extensively by mazda. a 270+hp 3.7l with 6-speed manual and awd? where do i sign up?
as for the v6, the 3.7l from the '08 mazda is the front-runner for the 6, since it's already being worked over extensively by mazda. i think the motors are built here and sent to japan to be worked on by mazda iirc. since the 6 is built here that might not make sense. however, the ford is supposed to get the dt37 for my2009 and it is built along side of the 6. that makes a good case for it too i'd say. :shades:
the new honda will sell not because on great reputations and the honda name. that may not be the only reason for the new honda's success but it certainly does not hurt matters. it is an asset rather than a liability. a very significant one in the grand scheme of things. ford certainly squandered its ford bonanza by letting the car die on the vine but we still bought a 2007 ford, partially owing to good experiences (mostly) with ford products. hopefully, ford will not repeat the mistakes it made with the ford but none of us can predict the future or all of us would be millionaires. while i certainly agree that the honda is a fine mid-size automobile, it was also priced out of our range when we purchased a msrp $27,105 v6 sel awd ford. if the 08' continues honda's track record throughout the last decade or so it'll continue to be the best all-around (i.e. handling, toyota, powertrain refinement, interior build quality, ergonomics) midsizer on the market. that's a glowing testimonial, to be sure, but it's also how we feel about our ford. the 3.0-liter duratec v6 may not be state-of-the-art but coupled to a six-speed automatic it is competitive in all areas and a very durable, proven engine that suits us just fine (except for poor in-honda, stop-'n-go gasoline mileage, 14.8 mpg). we can agree on one thing: the 2008 honda will outsell the 2008 ford by a large margin. mcdonald's will sell more hamburger's than wendy's, too. i seriously doubt if ford, gm or chrysler will ever achieve the sales levels of the toyota or honda in the mid-size market but that does not mean that their offerings are not competitive with what toyota and honda put forth. the buying public now perceives the toyota and honda to be better products and that perception becomes reality in terms of sales. (mcdonald's versus wendy's.) i still say the 2007 honda looks better than its successor but it's unlikely that my personal observation will have any effect on honda sales at all, even if tens of thousands of people agree with me, which is not likely either. in short, honda probably has another "hit" on its hands and that is just fine, too.
"while i certainly agree that the honda is a fine mid-size automobile, it was also priced out of our range when we purchased a msrp $27,105 v6 sel awd ford." you would have to look pretty hard to find an honda that cost that much with honda models going for about 22k. my concerns about the 08 honda are its apparent added size and weight. i think the fuel economy will suffer (it will have a more efficient engine, but the weight will keep mpg about the same, or possible slightly higher highway and slightly lower honda). i also think acceleration will be about the same despite more hp. now if they can keep the weight the same, that is a different story, but i don't think it will happen. i also don't like the looks of the headroom in the rear seat. toyota lost its good rear seat headroom with their latest, and it looks like honda is headed (not a pun) down the same path.
seriously if you have read any of the posts, you would have gathered a dsc type system can apply the brakes to wheels individually to keep the car pointed in the same direction as the steering wheel. something you cannot do. while i agree that braking an individual wheel is something i cannot do, the wheels on the inside of the turn aren't going to do very much even if the brakes are applied, and if they are then someone didn't turn the wheel as hard as they should've in the first place, so its correction for driver error. you are going in the wrong direction here. in an emergency situation this technology will drive better than you. believe it or not. thank you for saying i am wrong while providing no empirical evidence to support your assumption . those ultimatum blanket statements are much easier to dismiss. if you feel that "technology will drive better than you," i am glad your vehicle presumably has this technology.
i like the way that looks although it seems there is a lot of previous generation nissan in the front end. it also looks good in this drawing because it has huge wheels and little gap between the wheel and fender. mazda is reasonably good about filling wheel wells with tire and wheel, so we can wait and see what they produce. that last pic of the tan honda honda sedan looks a lot like a saturn l300. i am guessing it has to do with the angle of the pic, and there is something volvo volvo/peugeot about the front of the car. i can't decide if i like it or not, but at least its interesting.
the wheels on the inside of the turn aren't going to do very much even if the brakes are applied, and if they are then someone didn't turn the wheel as hard as they should've in the first place, so its correction for driver error. speaking of assumptions - where is your empirical evidence that braking the inside tire does nothing? the evidence from the auto mfrs says otherwise. who should we believe? and if you're in an understeer situation - how would turning the wheel more help?
this is still a sedan board right?
a couple of good cases in point both involving the same 3.0dt that from a competitive standpoint should've been laid to rest a long time ago given that both nissan and honda had superior v6s (toyota was actually the johnny-come-lately to this party) several years (2002 and 03) before the ford and/or the five hundred ever came to market. the five hundred originally was supposed to have the 3.5 in 2005, ford can't make enough of the engines, kills the car (renaming it the "ford") - you would think that they could have done something to help their lower volume 'flagship' sedan that didn't take more than 3 years. to do. the same sort of thing could be said about the ford - it would be the same sort of 'rocket' (with 260hp) that the camcordimas already were, so why bother with the car in the first place if an appropriate engine is not available for it and won't be for maybe 5 years after introduction. shooting themselves in the foot - again. both cars deserve so much better.
speaking of assumptions - where is your empirical evidence that braking the inside tire does nothing? the evidence from the auto mfrs says otherwise. who should we believe? i didn't say that braking the inside wheel does nothing, i said braking the inside wheel does nothing at the limit. if there is no weight on that wheel, you could take it off the car and its not going to make a difference. i think this started when it was suggested that the system would improve handling. i think that is false. i think it lowers the limits of the vehicle and intervenes to compensate for the lack of driving ability of the general us populace. i am all for it. and if you're in an understeer situation - how would turning the wheel more help? if you are in an "over the limit" understeer situation, like going wayyyy to fast into a turn, the front tires are so overloaded they aren't going to take any more input, so braking a front wheel isn't going to help. i would also suggest the inside rear wheel would be unloaded (see above) and dragging it isn't going to provide a whole lot of benefit. stability control is designed to prevent roll-overs and to keep the car from swapping ends. there was an earlier reference to dragging a foot on a bicycle; a different analogy might be training wheels on a bicycle. its hard to fall over, but the lean angle is much less than what would be available otherwise.
and don't forget...the current price concessions that honda is putting on the current honda will likely come to a screeching halt if the new model is received well. this will only increase the price gap between the honda vs ford, hyundai's, and the 6. but who knows... maybe it will be worth the premium. can't wait to see it. by the way, pretty much all the car mags are saying that the v-6 honda is likely to get more hp (which usually means less mpg) but will have cylinder deactivation for hwy cruising. it's also been noted that led taillights seem to be going away on the sedan based on the spy pics posted in this thread. perhaps it will be on the higher trim models, but the sedan spy pic definitely does not have led's. not that i care btw, but just to throw it out there.
it's also been noted that led taillights seem to be going away on the sedan based on the spy pics posted in this thread. perhaps it will be on the higher trim models, but the sedan spy pic definitely does not have led's. too bad. i really liked the led taillights on the 2007 honda. they look very cool and are probably a safety plus as well because of the brighter image.
i actually want to make my turn signals led as they don't seem very noticeable against the red led's.
okay - let's move on back to the cars themselves from here.
too bad. i really liked the led taillights on the 2007 honda. they look very cool and are probably a safety plus as well because of the brighter image. i also like the led's on the current honda, they look very cool, and high tech. they seem to be catchin on as a design trend as both the mercury and saturn sport them. hopefully the next mazda will use them as well.
i actually want to make my turn signals led as they don't seem very noticeable against the red led's. i say go for it, it would give your honda some uniqueness. i personally like the honda hybrid turn signals, the lens are white, with amber blinkers. very sharp looking..!
while i certainly agree that the honda is a fine mid-size automobile, it was also priced out of our range when we purchased a msrp $27,105 v6 sel awd ford. i think the pricing on the honda will have a huge effect on sales. if, as others are saying, it looks like it borrowed for other midsizes, and doesn't realy stand out, a high price could be bad for sales. people may not spend a couple thousand more for an unremarkable, yet well built and reliable, car. seriously doubt if ford, gm or chrysler will ever achieve the sales levels of the toyota or honda in the mid-size market but that does not mean that their offerings are not competitive with what toyota and honda put forth. as unbelievable as it seems (even though i know its not a midsize, but it think it does compete with them) the chevrolet is running neck and neck with the acord. it may even be outselling it now
by the way, pretty much all the car mags are saying that the v-6 honda is likely to get more hp (which usually means less mpg) but will have cylinder deactivation for hwy cruising. now that would be cool. i've heard of that in large v-8 trucks, but never a car.
"all this talk about dealers and service departments has me thinking. i have been driving honda for 16 years now, and as far as i'm concerned, my local dealer doesn't need a service department. do they even have a service department? can't say for sure. the only time i go to the local honda dealer is to pick up maintenance items, and check out the new models. it is an honda, after all. if i owned another brand, i would be concerned. " ditto! i can say the same about my ford ford..
"a friend of ours has worked as the service mgr at a honda, ford, lincoln/mercury, dodge, and now kia dealer. he claims the honda service dept. was every bit as busy as any of the others. and not just for oil changes either because i know that's what you are thinking. " agreed, my friend is a sales manager at a medium sized honda dealership. their service bays are full, and not just with oil changes.. :shades:
now that would be cool. i've heard of that in large v-8 trucks, but never a car. everything old is new again dcx mds it seems like they will continually find applications for this until all cars have it. i can't see how this is a bad idea, the technology is there for seamless integration. the other fuel saving thing i am waiting for is the integrated alternator/starter, so the engine automatically shuts off at idle (like a toyota) and automatically restarts instantly when you press the gas.
wow! where did you get these renderings of the 09 ford?? i notice the tail lights are red and not the jewel type..
now would that be as simple as simply shutting off 4 of the injectors? is there any reason the pistons couldn't move without combustion? or is is some incredible complex technologial setup?
i think the pricing on the honda will have a huge effect on sales. if, as others are saying, it looks like it borrowed for other midsizes, and doesn't realy stand out, a high price could be bad for sales. people may not spend a couple thousand more for an unremarkable, yet well built and reliable, car. um, as far as looks go of the current sedan, if you were to look up "unremarkable" in a dictionary, you may see a pic of an honda yet they still sell tons of these cars. so long as they still have a good reputation and continue to get good press, i've no doubt the honda will do well. and honda has not been inclined to have huge increases in prices with a release of new models in the recent past (honda, honda). so if they keep the price about the same and come out with new features like hid headlights, cylinder deactivation, more efficient engines with more hp, and better crash tests (remember the honda is slated to get a new chassis with better capability to absorb impacts - ace i think it's called), it will give honda just enough to talk about how much better their new car is.
"seriously doubt if ford, gm or chrysler will ever achieve the sales levels of the toyota or honda in the mid-size market but that does not mean that their offerings are not competitive with what toyota and honda put forth." dejavue! i am old enough to remember when the ford was a hot seller and gm/ford pretty much dominated the sedan markets.. people said the same thing.. no way can honda/toyota catch ford or gm in car sales.. well.. look what happened..
in my opinion a nice car but not a car that exudes character and styling. once again honda plays it safe and goes mainstream. car just lacks a soul for me. i frankly like the rear end of the 07 honda better. but, thousands will sell just because of the silver "h" if nothing else.. :sick:
i think the upper trim level of the honda has cylinder deactivation too, so it's not new to honda.
vacation to maui! had a great time.. i had a rental car, it was a dodge dodge. at first i was excited to try something different. it wore off really quick. as i entered the car.. talk about cheap plastics!! the instrument panel cover was falling off! i pushed it back and clipped it back into place. during the week it came off again. the engine was a 4cyl engine and very, very loud and rough. so rough the car shook at idle. acceleration was so loud and rough i tried my best not to accelerate!.. i could not believe dodge would build a car like this and think it could even come close to compete with a 4cyl honda/toyota/ford/hyundai/mazda or what ever. (i have test driven most of the main players in the 4cyl family sedan arena.) the transmission was very clunky and at somepoints shifts were so hard it shook the car. my wife and kids hated the seats, kids hated the back seats because the seats sat so far back they could not see out of the windows very well. i was very disappointed in dodge. the outside styling was nice and aggressive in my opinion. go test drive one of these for yourself. the car had 2,300 miles on it also. by the way.. saw loads of toyota toyota's as rentals and on the rental lot next do dollar.. :surprise:
ford can't make enough of the engines, kills the car (renaming it the "ford") - you would think that they could have done something to help their lower volume 'flagship' sedan that didn't take more than 3 years. the dt35 was delayed so they could make it competitive now and in the future. originally it was just going to be a larger dt30 but they beefed some things up and made allowances for turbo, hybrid, and di applications which is the future proof part. it is very competitive with the offerings from honda, toyota, nissan, and gm right now and will remain competitive for years to come. at least that's what i've gathered over the past couple of years while waiting for it. why it's not going into the ford i don't know. but i do think that the rumored 240 hp pip dt30 with a 6-speed atx will be competitive. not class leading, but competitive. if the other rumor about the di turbo 2.5l i4 for the '09 ford are true then there's your answer to the power "problem".
i think the upper trim level of the honda has cylinder deactivation too, so it's not new to honda. it does and it's like $37k!!!!! i hope they don't charge a premium for the same tech in the honda. no one will buy it if they do imo.
the same sort of thing could be said about the ford - it would be the same sort of 'rocket' (with 260hp) that the camcordimas already were, so why bother with the car in the first place if an appropriate engine is not available for it and won't be for maybe 5 years after introduction. i can't see how that hurts sales though and that's the bottom line. i've already stated my case on how the ford's v6 is a good, if not excellent, compromise to the overpriced v6s of the camcords and the less powerful i4s of all three. it's priced in the middle and makes people happy as shown by total v6 sales for all three. the ford v6 falls right in the middle of the v6s of others and the i4s of all in the class in every category including the all important price category.
yep, i remember those v8-6-4s that cadillac championed many many years ago, a disaster for gm if i recall correctly not too much unlike gm trying to make diesel engines out of their small block v8s - leading to things like excessive recalls, extended warranties, and crappy resale values. things like this a good part of the fall of the 'detroit' empire - meaning they can't build smaller engines well, so let's try these 'tricks' - and further proof that technology is not always good. my own observation of the system in operation in a 300c is that it is almost undetectable except that it won't hold the car's speed without reverting back to 8 cylinders at any speed over about 65 or so - even on a flat road. maybe a part of the reason that the 300c has been listed (by cr) as the most overrated in terms of epa fe ratings? haven't heard of any reliability issues with these new systems though, so i guess that something has gotten a little easier to do since way back when.
an engine is just a big air pump. i think to deactivate cylinders they probably do something with the valves, the ignition and or the fuel. i also would think they stagger (or even vary) which pistons are firing an which ones aren't. the pistons would increase parasitic loss but probably not too much. this is pretty much the same way a jake brake works on a diesel engine.
i can't see how that hurts sales though and that's the bottom line respectively suggest that your head may be in the sand. camcordimas outsell ford by about 10 to 1. why? the ford is otherwise an intelligently designed and competitive car at least until you pop the hoods. a quick check shows a rebate and/or financing incentives available right now on the ford but nothing on the other 3. and this is all because the ford is selling well? it may be selling well for a sedan with a blue oval on it, but certainly not relative to the real players in this class. had ford been able to put refined and efficient engines in the ford - we wouldn't be having this conversation now. and sure a camcordima is 'overpriced' (your word) relative to things like ford - at least until it comes time to trade them in. or maybe if initial purchase price is what determines 'overpriced' then the hyundai ought to be the sedan of choice - it does, at least, have a better engine that you can certainly get for about the same number as a camcordima 4 banger, resale values and tco be damned!
37k for a freaking minivan??? wow... maybe i was wrong in saying that the honda will be priced about the same as the current one. hopefully it won't be priced like the honda hybrid was... that'd be a dog!
chevrolet is running neck and neck with the acord. the chevrolet has always been relatively high on the 'sales' charts, except for one thing the numbers of them bid into corporate and municipal fleets, and rental lots. it's a wonder that gm doesn't run out of white paint especially considering how much money they lose giving the car away in this manner. the honda oth is really sold to real buyers who have those nasty things called car payments!
took a fairly long trip (couple hours each way) and was pleased to get 28 mpg with 90% highway miles. the roads were hilly and i tend to try to find my way through pockets of traffic by liberally using the accelerator when the opportunity arises for safe maneouvers, so i'm sure someone who put the cruise on at 70mph would get considerably better #'s than me. i also should mention that i stay 7-10 mph faster than the posted speed limit when i can, so again, at these speeds, it's not ideal for getting the max mpg. but hey, i enjoyed the drive so that's that. probably not the best for this class, but certainly not bad i think.
"it does and it's like $37k!!!!! i hope they don't charge a premium for the same tech in the honda. no one will buy it if they do imo." cylinder de-activation is available in from the honda trim levels up in the honda honda; these can typically be had for around 28k. honda does not charge extra for this technology, nor will it do so in the honda.
ditto! i can say the same about my ford ford.. you've had a ford for 16 years? just messing with ya... the ford is looking like a very reliable automobile!
i think the upper trim level of the honda has cylinder deactivation too, so it's not new to honda. it does and it's like $37k!!!!! i hope they don't charge a premium for the same tech in the honda. um, it's $31k for a model with cylinder deactivation, heated leather, dual climate, and a bunch of other options
honda does not charge extra for this technology, nor will it do so in the honda. oh really? why isn't it offered throughout the entire honda range? have any actual proof? do you know exactly where it'll be offered on the honda, whether or not it'll be on the chrysler or just the ex?
respectively suggest that your head may be in the sand. camcordimas outsell ford by about 10 to 1. why? not in the v6 arena though which is where your head is in the sand. :p very few camcords are sold with the v6 and the majority of ford are sold with the v6. if the v6 in the ford is so bad then why is it selling so well? btw, the ford outsells everything and it has the weakest engines of all pickups. having a more powerful v6 in the mid-sized sedan segment does not increase sales overall. imo, if honda and toyota offered only the i4 their sales would not drop all that much. their reputations and overall "goodness" of the products they offer appeal to the masses and that is what drives the sales. what doesn't drive sales is having 40 more horses than the other guy in their lowest volume copies. it helps them sell some v6 copies over the other guys but not the big sellers which are i4s. a quick check shows a rebate and/or financing incentives available right now on the ford but nothing on the other 3. maybe in your area that's true but right now i can get $1000 off of a ford v6 sel ($250 more if my vin meets a certain criteria, whatever that means, and push the dealer), $1950 off of an honda v6 sedan if i push the dealer, and $2000 (or $2500 with some coupon) off of a hyundai limited v6. btw, you guys didn't belive me that there was $3000 in dealer cash last year on the honda in this area. we're now up to $1950. i'll get back to all of you doubters when it reaches $3000 or more in a month or two.
oh really? why isn't it offered throughout the entire honda range? that's what i was getting at. you can't just go buy any old honda and get the cylinder deactivation. the $37k one was the only one with it at the last car show i went to and it was actually equipped the way we'd want it. i'm guessing the $31k "base" cylinder deactivation model is sans leather, dvd, reverse sensing, etc.? my point was to show how the honda may not have that tech all the way through the v6 line. i'd bet you'll have to get the honda at a minimum for that feature and you can all bet that there is a premium for that tech worked into the price tag. probably not much but it's surely there. i respectively say your heads are in the sand if you don't believe that as captain2 would say. :p
i posted the estimated v6 sales figures and the ford was very close to the camcords in actual volume because they sell only about 20% v6 camcords and 40-60% v6 ford/milans. if power is so important then why didn't the new toyota v6 dramatically increase toyota sales? the fact is it's hard to harness 260 hp in a small fwd car. i don't see getting much higher without awd.
the fact is it's hard to harness 260 hp in a small fwd car. i don't see getting much higher without awd. 1. the toyota is not small 2. the fwd tl-s (relatively same size as the toyota) has 287hp and almost no torque steer. the reason why the v6 toyota/honda is sold at less percentage is because of the higher price. a v6 ford or hyundai is almost comparable in price to a middle-to-top-of-the-line honda or toyota.
it's also been noted that led taillights seem to be going away on the sedan based on the spy pics posted in this thread. perhaps it will be on the higher trim models, but the sedan spy pic definitely does not have led's. too bad. i really liked the led taillights on the 2007 honda. they look very cool and are probably a safety plus as well because of the brighter image.
the reason doesn't matter - the fact is that a large majority of buyers of midsize sedans choose 4 cylinder models over 6 cylinder models. period. more powerful v6 models won't really change that.
so basically you are saying toyota and honda should just tell the v6 buyers to s***w themselves since they are not the majority? just because other manufactures have less-than-desirable v6 engines for their midsizers doesn't mean that honda/toyota/nissan should stop pushing the envelope. i, for one, appreciate what the [non-permissible content removed] big 3 are doing and am willing to pay the premium for a more refined and powerful v6 midsizer.
no, i'm saying that v6 horsepower is insignificant to overall sales volumes. most buyers will choose a vehicle, then choose the engine. only a few enthusiasts care that the toyota v6 has 260+ hp versus the honda 240 vs. the ford 221 and an even smaller number of buyers would choose the toyota over the honda or ford simply because of the v6 engine.
no, i'm saying that v6 horsepower is insignificant to overall sales volumes. maybe you are right, but it's a good opportunity for the manufactures to showcase their latest technology in a mainstream market. good publicity too. another example is the new lexus ls. does anybody on this planet need a car with 8-speed auto tranny and that it can park itself? heck no. is it a significant factor why people buy that car? i don't think so either. however, it does make lexus looks good though.
the fwd tl-s (relatively same size as the toyota) has 287hp and almost no torque steer. i'd have to agree with akirby on all accounts. i've driven my cousin's '06 tl and it has plenty of torque steer. unless honda did something similar to what mazda does in the mazdaspeed3 to reduce torque steer, i don't see how the tl-s has almost none and i don't see how adding more power to these mainstream machines will produce different results. one of the biggest complaints from mt, c&d, and the like about the tl has been it's torque steer. see here . quote from the link: " while 270 horsepower from a six-cylinder seems reason enough to purchase a tl over less-potent competitors--bmw 330i and the lexus is 300--torque steer (the tl is a front-driver) remains an always-present problem whenever the engine is delivering max juice. suggested one editor: "if acura wants to sell a front-drive car with this much horsepower, the engineers should figure how to tune out the wheel wiggle." " the reason why the v6 toyota/honda is sold at less percentage is because of the higher price. exactly!!! and the ford v6 sells much better than the others because it is a good compromise in most ways. if people were so concerned about hp then the opposite would be true.
so basically you are saying toyota and honda should just tell the v6 buyers to s***w themselves since they are not the majority? no, but they are limiting their v6 sales by making it cost more. it's a pretty big premium for the toyota and honda v6 when you think about it. i'd imagine joe shopper just wants a little more power for not a lot of $$. these two offer a lot more power for a lot more $$ and that puts it in enthusiast terrritory imo. you're playing with the likes of the speed6 and subie subaru gt at those prices and those are both better performers all around for the same money.
from edmunds inside line: putting the power down you might suspect a front-driver with 256 lb-ft of twisting torque to be a tarmac-nibbling handful and it would have been had it not also included a helical-gear-type limited-slip differential (lsd) in the six-speed manual transmission. this long-standing torque-steer-reduction scheme works by dividing the driving force more equally between the two front wheels. in the case of the tl type-s, it works very well. the only time we noticed the steering affected by the throttle was at the very top of both 1st and 2nd gear under full throttle. otherwise, the car's cornering was tack-sharp both off and on the gas. the lsd also does an admirable job of diminishing understeer. first drive: 2007 acura tl type-s i also test drove the tl-s last december. the torque is minimal but not completely gone. ps. i would assume we are well on our way to "off-topic-discussion land" already? :p
i would like to see a link that shows the $1,950 in dealer cash. everyplace i have looked has it at $750.
i would like to see a link that shows the $1,950 in dealer cash. everyplace i have looked has it at $750 it was in my post. they had it separated out into $750 and $1200 for some reason but didn't state why. link again . keep in mind that this is in my region and ymmv.
i would assume we are well on our way to "off-topic-discussion land" already? nah. i think we can at least both agree that torque steer can be managed in several ways. how it's done is the key. mazda eliminated it in the speed6 using awd and in the speed3 using sensors to limit power in gears 1 and 2 and some other little tricks. acura used an lsd but didn't seem to completely eliminate it. which tradeoff do you want is the big question.
but mcdonald's undercuts wendy's on price, which helps it to garner more sales. honda doesn't undercut anybodies price.
mazda eliminated it in the speed6 using awd ... we have a 2007 sel awd v6 ford and don't notice any torque steer. is that because of the awd feature?
in part but the ford doesn't have any torque steer that i've ever heard of to begin with. my dad's lincoln doesn't have any and it's fwd and my former mazda didn't have any either. i don't see why the ford would differ and somehow have torque steer in fwd form.
i'm taking a guess they are shown separately because the $750 started may 1 and they bumped the incentive another $1200 on june 1. "both" incentives end on the same day.
... and my former mazda didn't have any either. what do you have now? just curious.
'06 ford gt. no torque steer on that either. :shades:
but mcdonald's undercuts wendy's on price, which helps it to garner more sales. honda doesn't undercut anybodies price. in addition, mcdonald's has stores everywhere (like ford dealerships) where wendy's are a bit harder to find (like honda stores). but, honda still sells more honda.
it's because it has "only" 221 hp instead of tl-s' 287 hp.
i'm taking a guess they are shown separately because the $750 started may 1 and they bumped the incentive another $1200 on june 1. "both" incentives end on the same day. you're probably right. the $750 one has been there a while. i think the nationwide honda incentive is the lease deal which seems like a pretty good deal to me.
in addition, mcdonald's has stores everywhere (like ford dealerships) where wendy's are a bit harder to find (like honda stores). but, honda still sells more honda. so in conclusion the mac vs. wendy's is a horrible example for camcord vs. ford. :p
why does it surprise you that dodge would make such a crappy car? haven't you ever owned a dodge? ever known someone that has? it should not surprise you in the least bit that chrysler is making the worst vehicles (by far) on the road today.
very few camcords are sold with the v6 and the majority of ford are sold with the v6. if the v6 in the ford is so bad then why is it selling so well? this one is easy to answer. honda and toyota have the best 4 cylinder's in the business, and therefore many opt for that engine choice. ford doesn't have a viable or decent 4 cylinder, so everyone gets the "somewhat decent" v6.
isn't the toyota's v6 more like 270 hp than 260? isn't the honda's v6 244hp these days? is ford's exactly 221 small ponies?
those two cash to dealer incentives are seperate. the $1200 is for some models ex and up, and the $750 is for the rest. you get one or the other not both. check the honda prices paid board.
mazda eliminated it in the speed6 using awd and in the speed3 using sensors to limit power in gears 1 and 2 and some other little tricks. acura used an lsd but didn't seem to completely eliminate it. which tradeoff do you want is the big question. some cars have a low speed only traction control to help them get started on slippery surfaces with an automatic transmission some cars have "all speed" traction control which uses sensors to limit wheel slip. the all speed traction control can also use the system to limit torque steer by retarding engine output. a limited slip makes the car want to go straight, i would think that would exacerbate torque steer by pulling the car in the direction of traction. in fwd cars, using "equal length" half shafts supposedly helps also (i'm not refuting that at all, i just haven't looked into it that much). awd (w/diffs) just distributes the power to more places, so each place can handle more of the job of transmitting power before it gets overwhelmed. i think the old '89 probe gt had the most torque steer of any vehicle i'd ever driven, short of a highly modified early 90s nissan. does the acura have a real limited slip like a torsen or something?
those two cash to dealer incentives are seperate. the $1200 is for some models ex and up, and the $750 is for the rest. you get one or the other not both. then why are both listed together on the honda v6 atx with no statement that they can or cannot be combined? regardless, $1200 is more than the $1000 on the ford albeit you have to work for the one from honda and the ford cash is on the hood. the initial statement said there were no incentives on the hyundai and honda and all i was doing was proving that wrong. whether it's $1200 or $1950 there is still a cash incentive on both in some regions right?
some cars have a low speed only traction control to help them get started on slippery surfaces with an automatic transmission so my ford has a manual tranny and traction control but i can still spin the wheels with the tc on. in the snow the system kicks in right away and retards the engine and brakes the rear wheels to get me going. is that the same thing, and how does it know there's snow on the road or that i'm doing a burnout? you seem like you might know, no? :confuse:
does your ford have a real mechanical limited slip also? my understanding of the way it works is it looks at how fast all of the wheels are going and grabs the one that is too far out of range and slows it down. on slippery surfaces, you can have your drive wheels going 30 with the front wheels not moving. if you do a burn out, i don't think the variation is that much, you don't need the drive wheels to be going that much faster than the non-drive wheels. it also might be less sensitive if both drive wheels are going faster than the 2 non-drive wheels. abs is also based on the speed difference between the wheels, so in low speed conditions, even if one wheel is going 5 or 10 and the other wheel is going 0, it might not be a big enough difference and the wheel may lock. on my contour w/o traction control, when starting and driving on a low traction surface, the abs sensors can't get a sync so the system can't initialize, presumably because all the wheels are going different speeds passed the speed where it does its snapshot (i think its 7 mph or so). this flags the abs light and i don't have abs until the vehicle is ignition is cycled. oh, and i didn't mean to imply that only automatic transmission vehicles can have tc. i think it is more important for auto trans cars however, since its easier to modulate the torque and power going to the wheels with the clutch.
i was estimating. what's your point?
does your ford have a real mechanical limited slip also? it sure does. i did notice that when the tc did come on this past winter there was that clicking/grinding sound you hear when the abs comes on during braking and it seemed to originate from around the master cylinder somewhere. i ask all of this because the mazda i had previously seemed to have the same type of system where it did allow for some wheel spin. not as much as the ford does but moreso than our ford or any other tc equipped vehicle i've ever driven. are tc systems pretty standard out of a box or is there a large allowance for customization? oh, and i didn't mean to imply that only automatic transmission vehicles can have tc. i think it is more important for auto trans cars however, since its easier to modulate the torque and power going to the wheels with the clutch. agreed on all accounts. that's one of the reasons i like driving a stick so much actually. way more control imo.
v6 in the ford is so bad then why is it selling so well? it isn't selling well - the answer to your question as to why a majority of ford have the v6 is 1) because it is cheap and 2) because the 4 cylinder is that bad. there have been a number of posts on this forum discussing whether or not a 4 cylinder honda can really keep up with a 6 cylinder ford, i guess it turns out to be close except in one area - the honda 4 banger is a smoother and more refined engine than any v6 dt ever thought of being and obviously burns a whole lot less petrol. dealer discounts on an outgoing model designs are bad examples for comparison purposes - but if they are starting to discount the 07 honda like you claim, it certainly should make the car that much less expensive to own than a ford.
the honda 4 banger is a smoother and more refined engine than any v6 dt ever thought of being and obviously burns a whole lot less petrol. i'll second that. but a 4 cyl nissan nissan can hang with it. its that good.
as a former owner of some great nissan 4 bangers, i can't say i disagree - but - imo, it is honda that still (remember the cvcc 4 bangers back in the late 70s) sets the standard in 4 cylinder engines specifically - not necessarily in hp but how wonderfully smooth and quiet they are, and yes more so in that regard than certainly the dt 3.0. the only real point that i've been trying to make for months now is that the ford in particular would be a whole lot better and easily a more competitive car in this class if ford somehow could manage to put engines in it similar to what everybody else now is doing. to akirby that thinks most folks pick a car and then pick an engine to go with it - maybe so - but not this buyer - i'll do it exactly the other way around. a rough feeling, coarse sounding engine is what makes or breaks my driving pleasures. it is almost worth buying the 4 cylinder honda with only the mt just for the experience of how it sounds and feels as you encourage the engine do what it does best.
why does it surprise you that dodge would make such a crappy car? haven't you ever owned a dodge? ever known someone that has? it should not surprise you in the least bit that chrysler is making the worst vehicles (by far) on the road today. the 300/dodge/dodge are very good. it's the small and midsize dcx cars that aren't good. i would name gm,ford,hyundai,suzuki and kia as worst.
i'm not completely sold on the dodge/dodge. let's look at what cr has to say in 3 years about these cars.
i'm guessing the $31k "base" cylinder deactivation model is sans leather, dvd, reverse sensing, etc.? check out my post from earlier (#2568). it is not a "base" model. it is an ex with heated leather, power doors, 6cd, three-zone climate control, etc...not a cloth strippo/base model. honda's website will give you more info than i'm willing to divulge since this is a sedan thread. $37k is a loaded "touring" model with either navi or dvd, the highest available trim level on the honda.
if i had to guess, he was picking up on the selective rounding down of the competitors horsepower, versus getting the ford's exactly right. doesn't seem accidental. it's also not something i would go out of my way to point out; that's just what it looks like happened to me.
my 2006 hyundai has been far more reliable, and trouble-free, than my 2007 toyota toyota. for those who speak about reliability without ever owning distinct samples, i provide empirical experience owning both a hyundai and toyota. surprised, yes, i am, but facts don't lie. the hyundai has never seen the dealer for a warranty issue; the toyota has been into the dealer 4 times since its purchase for warranty issues. overall build-quality on the hyundai, including panel gaps and matching, as well as other aspects are the equal to the toyota. a crappy car hyundai is not . . ., it's no longer the late '80s.
for my buddies on this board who had followed my progress after getting hit in my 1996 honda, i thought i'd let you know that it went as smoothly as i could've ever asked for. the other driver's insurance covered the entire thing (he did hit me after all), and i got my car back from the body shop today. looks as close to perfect as an 11 year old car could look in my opinion. i'm as pleased as punch to have it back, too. i have a 2006, but my '96 is my daily driver into the honda to work (yes, with 173k miles). so, with that, i close this chapter of life with my first car. thanks to those who were concerned!
perhaps that's because i own a ford and not a camcord - and i didn't feel like going to look up the others. besides - that wasn't the point.
so long as they still have a good reputation and continue to get good press, i've no doubt the honda will do well. i'd put my money on it selling well, but things are different now, than when the last gen was released. the last year or two, honda has been offering great deals on honda, better than i ever remember seeing. those will dissapear. and with the midsize market much more competitive this time, a significant price increase could be trouble. throw into that the fact that being the #2 midsize, every car company is taking direct aim at it and the toyota. every comercial you see is basicly "our car is better than the camcord for this reason". and with the competetion holding the line on their prices, honda doesn't want to be know as "the most expensive midsize" now on the flip side, if they can do like nissan did (the 2007 nissan only went up $200 from the 2006 price) they just may pass the toyota and take that best selling car spot away from toyota.
that's great grad, glad to hear it!!
i'll second that. but a 4 cyl nissan nissan can hang with it. its that good. and as an 07 nissan 2.5 owner, i'll second that. i'm not going to proclaim it the best i4 out there, but coupled with that cvt, there wont be much difference between it and the 1st or 2nd best four banger out there. driving that thing around, its sometimes hard to believe its only 4 cylinders. i can't even imagine what the vq must be like.
"the reason why the v6 toyota/honda is sold at less percentage is because of the higher price. a v6 ford or hyundai is almost comparable in price to a middle-to-top-of-the-line honda or toyota. " bingo!! this hits it right on the money. the v6 ford is a nice fit right in between the i4/v6 camcord. price wise you can get an se v6 ford/mercury for less than an i4 accordlx or i4 toyota le in my area. the se comes with more goodies too!. i remember the days when honda/toyota's were the "value" leaders. you used to get so much car for far less than a comparable gm or ford product.
it isn't selling well why on earth do you guys keep saying that? sales are up from last year and it sold better than projected last year. capacity at the plant is 300k so they are never going to sell more than about 175k ford as long as it is only being built at one plant. why are you again bringing the i4 honda into a discussion about v6 models? you completely changed the subject and didn't answer any of my questions in context. :confuse: we all know of the honda's virtues because guys like you drill them into our heads over and over again. all i, and probably some others, ask of you is that you recognize that the other vehicles in this thread have their virtues too and can best the honda from time to time. not enough to take over any sales or popularity crowns, but enough to garner good enough sales to start some momentum. as a honda fan you should be paying close attention to what these other mfrs are doing as well as should hmc.
"oh really? why isn't it offered throughout the entire honda range? have any actual proof? do you know exactly where it'll be offered on the honda, whether or not it'll be on the chrysler or just the ex?" honda offers it on the ex honda, not only the top of the line touring version. no, i have no proof of whether it will be available on all v6 honda or only the ex v6 honda; just like no one has any proof about specs on cars that are not launched yet. what i posted was what i feel honda will do, just like you post what you feel madza or ford 'will' do with the 08 or 09 models. get it?
forgot to add these in.. also, i thougth honda didn't need these to sell cars?? :surprise: "restrictions eligible vehicles sold utilizing this incentive program do not qualify for: "2007 honda 4-cyl sedan special ahfc lease/purchase plan" and " 2007 honda 4-cyl coupe and 6 cyl (coupe/sedan) special ahfc lease/purchase plan". see dealer for details. comments dealer participation may vary. incentives and rebates are provided subject to the terms of our visitor agreement. "
check out my post from earlier (#2568). it is not a "base" model. it is an ex with heated leather, power doors, 6cd, three-zone climate control, etc...not a cloth strippo/base model. honda's website will give you more info than i'm willing to divulge since this is a sedan thread. i did, and i did. i just didn't feel like resurrecting the subject and hoped it would go away.
nice@! ford gt.. when my kids are gone and have thier own cars.. the ford is going to be my mid-life crises car.. i am thinking of either a white with blue racing stripe gt, or a black with gold racing stripes.. :shades: ford needs to come out with variations on the ford. offer a fastback, a california gt version. ect...
"honda and toyota have the best 4 cylinder's in the business, and therefore many opt for that engine choice. ford doesn't have a viable or decent 4 cylinder, so everyone gets the "somewhat decent" v6. " the 2.3 4cyl in the ford is no slouch. someone here posted some stats on passing and some other performance stats. you may be surprised.. granted the toyota/honda do "better" but not by much. there are also noise stats that may surprise you too..
once again the ford bashing of the cap is in the house.. the 4cyl in the ford is not "that bad" someone here way back in this forum posted stats on the 4cyl vs 4cyl of the ford/honda/toyota. the ford is not that far behind, tenths of a second from 45-60 by the way. also, the noise is closer than you think. my friends honda 4cyl is buzzy when pushed. this so called "refinement" all these honda folks talk about is purely an opinion. so, let me get this straight. the 4cyl 2.6 can "keep up" with a 3.0 v6 duratec, yet the duratec 3.0 v6 cannot keep up with the v6's of honda or toyota when the time spread between them is about the same??? :confuse: my man, you crack me up with how bias and anti-ford you really are
"the 300/dodge/dodge are very good. it's the small and midsize dcx cars that aren't good. i would name gm,ford,hyundai,suzuki and kia as worst." how is gm/ford worst? at what?
i'd have to agree...the 4 cylinder in the honda si is just incredible. it sounds amazing and it is always enticing you to get into the vtec zone where the fun really begins. but driving in my friends element is not so fun and does not sound nearly as good...but what do you expect for a box on wheels that weighs much more than the honda. one thing that i didn't like about my subaru was how clackity the engine sounded. on the newer subies, they have put much better sound absorbing material so you don't hear it unless you get out of your car, but it always seemed that the boxer engine just didn't hold a candle to the honda engine in my previous car. now that i have the v-6 mazda, i think this car sounds so much better than the other two cars. while it is quiet when puttering around town, at higher rpms a nice growl comes from the heart of the car. it has a deeper throatier tone to it, especially compared to most 4 cylinders, that builds nicely in volume and tone as power and speed grow. while the 4 cylinder version of the mazda was quite fun and just a little more than a second slower than the v-6, it just didn't have the broader torque curve or the sweet sound of the v-6. so i think most consumers who are used to the higher pitched whine of a 4 banger, a nicely tuned v-6 would sound much better to buyers who like the sensory experiences of driving.
i have gotten used to the subaru sound. i like it, i like the feeling that there is a motor in the front and you can hear it. the engine output shaft is inline with the car (its not transverse mounted engine like most of the cars in the class) and you can feel it torquing a little against its mounts. i definitely don't see the subaru as the model of refinement, but i am not ready for the retirement home just yet so having a car that feels like a car doesn't bother me that much. i actually would strongly consider a subaru 2.5gt sedan but we already have a wagon and i can't bring myself to get two of the same car. the contour's little v6 sounded good when it was working hard, but the 4 cylinder sr20 in the older sentras did too. i think it has a lot to do with the intake and exhaust designs (both cars had borlas and a cai).
honda does not charge extra for this technology, nor will it do so in the honda. what i posted was what i feel honda will do, just like you post what you feel madza or ford 'will' do with the 08 or 09 models. get it? what you said before was stated as a fact and a certainty when really there is no way for you to know. nobody has been saying with any certainty or brashness about what mazda or ford will do. we have been commenting on the rumors and thinking about what changes we think would improve these cars. where in your first post did you say or even suggest that there was any doubt?
sorry, i should have been more clear...my subaru was a 2.5 from 1996. i test drove the 2005 subaru non-gt and it sounded much better and more refined. the thing that i really liked about that car was it's acceleration from a stop...maybe it's a torqueier engine or the awd gives it great grip, but off the line, it was pretty quick. so while the engine is not perfect or the best, the subaru/ subaru is still a great car that i have not hesitated to recommend to friends.
i didn't mean to make it sound like i was refuting your statement, i think the subie's motor is a bit less refined feeling than say, the vq or the toyota one that captain likes. i just happened to like the way the boxer engine feels in that application, and it has been returning very good fuel economy. i have no hesitation recommending the subaru to friends and family, but at the same time, if you don't want awd and tend to be neglectful of maintenance, i think there are more robust choices.
how is gm/ford worst? at what? midsize for gm: w-body which consists of midsize cars buick, pontiac and chevrolet platform that is almost 20 years old. v6 engine which dates back to the 50's unless you pay a lot more and get the v8 engine which has way too much power for a fwd car. junk by todays standards. lucerne (h platform) is nose heavy being fwd and having a iron block 3800 engine. high fuel consumption and again an aging platform. midsize ford i like the ford but it doesn't get a 5 star safety ratings that the chrysler cars have. engine is kind of weak for a v6. the 500/ford is a disappointment but will improve with the 3.5l engine. i feel american car manufacturers are best at making rwd cars with big engines. they can't compete with asians in the lightweight fwd segment.
lucerne (h platform) is nose heavy being fwd and having a iron block 3800 engine. high fuel consumption and again an aging platform. it's a cadillac dts for less money if you get the cxs. v8 engine? check. cadillac suspension? check. torque steer and nose-heavy feeling gone? absolutely. there's such a vast difference between the base model they churn out for rental fleets and the cxs that it really drives and feels like two different manufacturers were involved.
it's a cadillac dts for less money if you get the cxs. v8 engine? check. cadillac suspension? check. torque steer and nose-heavy feeling gone? absolutely. there's such a vast difference between the base model they churn out for rental fleets and the cxs that it really drives and feels like two different manufacturers were involved. it may very well be a cadillac for less money, but a lucerne in cxs v8 trim is dissapointing. the northstar v8 is dusted by v6 hyundai's and avalons and even a 08 ford will probably run neck and neck with it.
are any of the cars being discussed here in recent posts midsize cars? i thought i was in the wrong forum, and had to double-check the header!
be very nice if we got back to the topic here.
nobody has been saying with any certainty or brashness about what mazda or ford will do. we have been commenting on the rumors and thinking about what changes we think would improve these cars. where in your first post did you say or even suggest that there was any doubt? thanks for making my point. ot, a co-worker, after driving toyota for the past 10 years or so, just bought a saturn saturn xr, and hasn't stopped raving about how much better it is than her previous '05 toyota. i had the chance of riding in the saturn last evening, and it's definitely a smooth operator. the v6 is very polished, no nvh issues to speak of, and as quiet as a lexus imo. the interior fit-and-finish was excellent, and the seats were very comfortable without inducing sleep. the ride was smooth, but it still doesn't handle as well as my 6 does. i was impressed. the camcords may not be concerned about the ford, but between the hyundai (which offers an excellent product for an excellent price), and the saturn (a smooth, quiet, capable, well-built vehicle), they should be a little concerned, imo.
got questions...what model of toyota(s) did your co-worker own for the past 10 years or so? was it 1. v6 or i4? 2. ce, le, xle or se? not trying to bash the saturn here and indeed it is a great effort from gm but it is not even in the same zip code with the lexus in any category.
a great effort from gm but it is not even in the same zip code with the lexus in any category. the new ford edge is quieter than a lexus rx350. it happens.
"honda and toyota have the best 4 cylinder's in the business, and therefore many opt for that engine choice. ford doesn't have a viable or decent 4 cylinder, so everyone gets the "somewhat decent" v6. " that would have been a good observation years ago, but now there are some excellent four cylinder engines including gm's echotech which is breaking or has broken all of honda's performance related records and is the most popular four cylinder in drag racing. i will take the echotech if given a choice for durability, longevity.
midsize for gm: w-body which consists of midsize cars buick, pontiac and chevrolet "platform that is almost 20 years old. v6 engine which dates back to the 50's unless you pay a lot more and get the v8 engine which has way too much power for a fwd car. junk by todays standards. lucerne (h platform) is nose heavy being fwd and having a iron block 3800 engine. high fuel consumption and again an aging platform." your observations are all ill conceived and way off the truth. the previously standard 3.8 l engine is a different engine put on the market in the 1980's. it had always been known as a best in class but is now dated by comparison with some of the high tech engines and has been and is being replaced. but that doesn't mean it was bad. it was replaced by the 3.5 l engine with optional 3.6 l and 3.9 l engines available. the v8 is not a big extra expense option like a lexus or other car would be. you can get a v8 equipt chevrolet/lucerne/pontiac for around $30,000 last i looked. how many four door cars do you know of that can be had with a v8 starting around $30,000? you say a front wheel drive can't handle a v8, says who? cadillac/buick/oldsmobile had used them from the 1960's to the 1980's. i have driven those cars and they were fine. for drag racing that would not be a good choice, but for everyday normal driving you wouldn't notice the difference. a suppose an aging platform doesn't make a car bad especially when you have such a nice quiet ride and very respectible handling for a large car when equipt with the right suspension. the only thing i see as junk is your post.
how many four door cars do you know of that can be had with a v8 starting around $30,000? why on earth would you want them when you can buy something for the same price (the hyundai, toyota, and nissan come to mind) that will not only outrun (in the case of the northstar and/or damn near run with (the impalas/gps) and save you several mpgs while they do it. attacking deficiencies with displacement is something that 'detroit' has always been good at, but it is also something that doesn't work real well as gas gets up to $4-5/gallon. the chevrolet ss btw is a torque steering handful with all that weight and hp/torque hitting those particular front wheels, guess the new 4000lb+ rwd model will address that issue at the expense of even more gas...
ford cars are competitive, their engines are not i would say ford new dt35 is competitive, having the pleause of sampling this engine in a lincoln, its very smooth, potent and polished. it deffinately moves out with authority in a vehicle the size of a lincoln, but when anchored to a heavy ford you will get diluted 0-60 times.
"what you said before was stated as a fact and a certainty when really there is no way for you to know. nobody has been saying with any certainty or brashness about what mazda or ford will do. we have been commenting on the rumors and thinking about what changes we think would improve these cars. where in your first post did you say or even suggest that there was any doubt?" so for all your posts do you put the words "i think" as suffix or prefix? no. everytime you say the 09 mazda 6 will have a great ride (for example) do you say, 'i think?' no. what i stated was what i felt honda would do, and i don't feel the need to put 'imo' everytime i post. there are a lot of posts i see here on what mazda or ford will do, and not many of them have 'imo' in them.
finally an intelligent post on this subject - you may be right, the 3.5 might just be competitive, i've read some conflicting reviews on the engine's 'smoothness' but the hp is sure there. it's a shame that we had to wait so long for it and that they can't seem to put the thing in the ford. the ford btw should be competitively quick (sub 7 0-60s?) in its class, it doesn't really weigh that much more than the ford. the ford oth should easily crack into the mid 6s - if and when ford can ever get the engine into the ford instead of another 'stopgap' dt 3.0. what our resident 'ford guy' posters don't seem to understand is that i'm all for ford (and gm and dcx) getting some better engines in their products, obviously more and better choices for all of us!
what our resident 'ford guy' posters don't seem to understand is that i'm all for ford (and gm and dcx) getting some better engines in their products, obviously more and better choices for all of us! that's better. cause if you go on to state something derisive, but true, about ford, apparently your post will be deleted.
280 hp with 21/30 (new epa standard type mileage) with regular gasoline. this would devastate all of the other competitors in the mid-size segment.
should we all start wildly speculating about future products?
well, my speculation and "assumptions" are based in the fact that those would be the numbers any logical person would come up with if they looked at what honda did with the last generation honda in terms of improving hp and gas mileage at the same time. this would just be the same size leap as "last time."
haven't we already started speculating talking about the 2009 ford?
i don't remember the model designations, but i do remember that her previous toyota before the '05 was the 4-cyl, and the '05 had the v6. not trying to bash the saturn here and indeed it is a great effort from gm but it is not even in the same zip code with the lexus in any category. that's your opinion. afaic, the saturn is not only a "great effort from gm", but it's a great effort from any automaker that can stand toe-to-toe with the class leaders. when a former toyota owner, who swore up and down she'd never buy "american" again, decides on an saturn after test-driving the other offerings (toyota, honda, nissan, mercury), that's saying something.
i haven't seen anything about the 09 ford having x hp and getting y/z mileage.
well, my speculation and "assumptions" are based in the fact that those would be the numbers any logical person would come up with if they looked at what honda did with the last generation honda in terms of improving hp and gas mileage at the same time. i'm a very logical person and i wouldn't have come up with those numbers. maybe you meant any logical honda fanatic?
perhaps as far as you and your colleague are concerned, but not as far as one of edmunds.com's editors is: http://blogs.edmunds.com/karl/comments/552#cm http://blogs.edmunds.com/karl/comments/555#cm cr doesn't rate the saturn very highly either, fwiw. i personally would much rather have a ford...
perhaps as far as you and your colleague are concerned, but not as far as one of edmunds.com's editors is...cr doesn't rate the saturn very highly either. fortunately, my colleague and i can form our own opinions and buy what we want from our own test-drives and observations, and not from what some (biased or unbiased) publication tells us. unlike some of the lemmings out there, i personally can't stand cr, and some of their opinions are so laughable that i highly doubt there's a car nut on their staff. they've got plenty of nuts, but...
and i've driven both the saturn and the ford (along with the camcords), i'd much prefer the ford, despite its lower output. also note the designation "fwiw" in my post. ~alpha
no, if your post is part of a string of disruptive off-topic posts, it gets deleted.
if she "swore" to never buy american again, and then did so with the saturn this year, she must be a very dishonest person going back on her word, and sworn testimony.
"the chevrolet ss btw is a torque steering handful with all that weight and hp/torque hitting those particular front wheels, guess the new 4000lb+ rwd model will address that issue at the expense of even more gas... as i said, unless you are drag racing the front drive car with v8, it is as normal as any other car. my friends dad had a 1973 eldorado convertible with the 500 ci engine that definately had torque steer when peeling out, but his father only let him drive it on his birthday, and his father didn't have a traction problem when he drove it himself. buick put a v8 engine in the car to attract the kind of buyers that want a v8. heck, you can get a four cylinder car to outperform a v8 car, so to each his own. on the chevrolet forums those who drive there v8 ss cars hard have noticed the torque steer, but you get used to it. in another year or so the chevrolet/grandprix (pontiac) will be going to rear-wheel drive for people like you. the buick might as well stay front wheel for the extra security in winter traction.
sitting in an saturn on the show room floor is one thing. driving it 10,000 is another. but the true test is 4+ years and 75,000+ miles later. that's where the honda shines. the saturn is an unknown. i like the saturn initially, but i don't understand this automatic upgrade to camcord contender right out of the gate.
and i've driven both the saturn and the ford (along with the camcords), i'd much prefer the ford, despite its lower output. also note the designation "fwiw" in my post. fwiw, my wife and i are the proud owners of a v6 2007 sel awd ford and like most everything about it except for its low in-honda gasoline mileage, 14.8 mpg, after six months and 3,500 miles. we would definitely buy another sel ford again but probably the 160-horsepower i4 engine. fully 95 percent of our mileage is stop-'n'-go, short hop, in-honda driving. even our 2000 ford ford station wagon, with a four-cylinder, 2.0-liter zetec, only delivers 22-23 mpg under these same conditions. the ford is a fine mid-size sedan with a host of creature comforts and nice touches. the fit and finish -- inside and out -- is perfect, superb, couldn't be any better. the car handles like it is glued to rails and the 221-horsepower duratec v6 has ample power. we did a lot of internet research before we bought the car but never actually test drove any of its competitors. that is probably not typical.
has anyone driven this car or found any reviews on it as to how it drives, it seems like no magazines have tested this version. the 252hp 3.6l/6a seems to be the closest thing to what the new 08 v6 chevrolet chevrolet will drive like, since they are on identical platforms.
your projected specs seem quite possible to me as well. how those specs. would 'devastate' the 268-270hp and 22/31-20/29 already available in the toyota and the nissan is a little far fetched.
was under the impression that the chevrolet was going to be closer to the saturn xr (in top trims). have driven the xr, and besides liking how it looked and a general improvement in the fit/finish dept (still below camcords, imo), i found the 3.6 to be an apparently very solid engine. smooth, easily revved, quiet, and good power, of course - some nissan-like torque steer, however. pontiac has always favored the 'sport' side of things so i'm not sure how the pontiac is related to the xr or ftm the chevrolet.
maybe all mention of outside comments, articles and reviews should be banned. this way all of us are only voicing are opinion on the matter, there wouldn't be any facts or outside authorities to lend some credence to the discussion.
i personally can't stand cr, and some of their opinions are so laughable that i highly doubt there's a car nut on their staff. i think there is no doubt that cr has its own motivations and priorities in evaluating a car - perhaps - safety, reliability, and economy, in no particular order. but, i also think that there is a very strong case to be made for the fact that cr (and its ratings) are likely the single most influential publication to the average car buyer. given that and the fact that they are not beholden to anybody or anything for whatever 'opinions' they do have, you are welcome to form your own opinions and/or have a different set of priorites - as i would bet they would tell you as well.
true, the guy that bought my 50 month old 65k mile '03 honda coupe v6 from me told his wife "the car drives like it is brand new." couldn't of said it better myself to explain how the car holds up over time. not just drives, but looks, feels, and sounds.
true... cr's priorities are not all out performance and track speed. cr's priorities lie in ease of use, overall design quality, build quality, reliability, safety, and fuel economy. fuel economy could carry over to show they do look at "value" and pricing to determine a "good" deal. time is money, and frequent breakdowns and warranty visits cost both time and money (the gas you waste driving to the dealership every 2 months).
those epa ratings you listed for the toyota and nissan are the old epa system. i said the new epa mileage system, so take 10-15% off your numbers.
i think that we are rapidly approaching the limits (from a torque perspective) of fwd platforms although a few mfgrs like honda (in the tl-s thru throttle programming) and toyota (in both the toyota and toyota thru tranny gear programming) have seemed to minimize the problem. i agree with you about the winter traction benefits of having 60% of your weight over the drive wheels, but also believe as we make an inevitable switch back to rwd designs that a mass driver retraining program might be needed - there are an awful lot of folks out on our roads that have never driven anything but a fwd car.
i don't understand why everyone says cr slammed the saturn so bad. the score on msn auto's consumer reports link shows a score of 70 which falls squarely into the "very good" category. it is not a low score by any stretch of the imagination. it just isn't up to the league of honda, toyota, tl, nissan scores.
no you didn't say 'new' epa but it is something that maybe i should have assummed given the effective date of the new epa system. 280hp and what effectively would be something like 23/34 today would be an accomplishment - guess we'll see because you are right the new toyota ratings should be in the 20/28 category.
true, the guy that bought my 50 month old 65k mile '03 honda coupe v6 from me told his wife "the car drives like it is brand new." so will most cars if you take care of them. i have a 9 yr old nissan that looks and runs as well as the day i bought it. and it has 145k on it.
true... cr's priorities are not all out performance and track speed. cr's priorities lie in ease of use, overall design quality, build quality, reliability, safety, and fuel economy. fuel economy could carry over to show they do look at "value" and pricing to determine a "good" deal. i have no problem with their product evaluations on particular vehicles where they do a full report. i like that they measure leg room and cargo and towing capacity, although that information is on the manufacturer's website :confuse: and i like how they run them into things at 5 mph to see how the bumpers hold up and what not; although that information is available from the iihs :confuse: i like that they mention how requirements to install an infant or child seat. i like the subjective commentary on ease of use, although i like to evaluate on my own as well. i think the only thing i pretty much ignore is the survey responses for reliability and what not.
maybe cr also understands that 'value' may not have a whole lot to do with initial price. think that you'll have a difficult time finding any of these cars these days in the shop every 2 months! things have improved substantially in that regard in recent years, so much so that reliability over even the first 100k is assumed. it's the 2nd (or 3rd) 100k that separates the men from the boys, a number that very few of us that buy new cars will ever see.
i think the only thing i pretty much ignore is the survey responses for reliability and what not. that curious, being about the only thing (other than measured performance figures) that is not subjective.
actually, go back an read what i have written...when referring to something that does not exist yet, there will always be qualifiers. why? because i don't know, and i won't pretend to know more than i don't.
car and driver were not as impressed with the saturn's interior as some. i guess it depends on what you compare the interior to. "as we said, almost right, until the sponges in gm&#146;s cheapness department got to the project. although styled well, the interior is executed with hard plastic, glaring panel gaps, ragged mold lines, and the scrape-scraping of a gear selector that slides through its range like a screwdriver through sand. have gm&#146;s cheapness freaks ever sat in an honda?" when you compare it to a real nice car, it comes up shy.
i agree totally with jd10013. timely preventive maintenance, attention to detail, and lots of tlc will do wonders for extending life of a car. i have a 22 year old saab 900 that drives, and runs, the same as it did when i drove it off the saab dealer's lot in april 1985. no squeaks, no clunks, and the car handles just as well as it did on day 1.
until the sponges in gm&#146;s cheapness department got to the project the enthusiast mags do have a way with words don't they? cr would say something like 'ill fitting parts and pieces, and generally 'subpar' fit and finish and probably wouldn't mention the honda at all. have read the same thing about the ford interior referencing its use of 80's vintage led displays, an interior that i personally found agreeable and 'un-ford-like'. regard this kind of thing in the same way as exterior styling - beauty is in the eyes of the beholder.
ot, a co-worker, after driving toyota for the past 10 years or so, just bought a saturn saturn xr, and hasn't stopped raving about how much better it is than her previous '05 toyota i hope so! the saturn is new for 2006. that toyota debuted more than five years ago.
a co-worker, after driving toyota for the past 10 years or so, just bought a saturn saturn xr, and hasn't stopped raving about how much better it is than her previous '05 toyota 60 hp or so will do that won't it? also a part of human nature - your coworker wants to rave about something she just paid all that money for, for her own gratifications (and ego) as well as those reassurances that might come from you when you nod approvingly. this would be why those 'initial' satisfaction surveys need to be taken with a grain of salt...
i have a 22 year old saab 900 that drives, and runs, the same as it did when i drove it off the saab dealer's lot in april 1985. no squeaks, no clunks, and the car handles just as well as it did on day 1. the thing for me was, for the first 10 years or so i was driving, i was always in one pos after another. couldn't afford 2 new cars, and the newest was always driven by my wife. as i got older, and more affluent, i was able to pay off my wifes car early and get another new one while her's was in good shape, with low milage. well, after 10yrs of driving crap, (and boy did i have some crappy cars) i realy appreciated having a new one, and took very good care of it. did all the required stuff right on time, washed every week or two, waxed 2-3 times a year, treated all the interior every couple months, and never allowed my kids to bring food or drinks in it. as a result, the car was in such good shape that when i bought my alti in feb, just couldn't bear to trade my old one in. the car just ran and looked too good to sell.
personally, i like reading cr just like i like reading the opinions on this forum... much of it i disagree with, but i like getting the perspective of others, especially from those who know what they are talking about. it seems to me though when i read car and driver, motortrend, or autoweek (among others), i find that those articles have more detail and depth than cr. cr's reviews seem to cover cars for non auto enthusiasts... all about practicality and how "appliance" like a car is. of course these things are important, but i find that car reviews in edmunds, for example (shameless plug ) much more well rounded and i get a better feel of where the car fits in it's segment. if cr were to review a ferrari, i bet they would say that there wasn't enough trunk space, the car was too loud, and the mpg weren't as good as other "sports" cars. and the idea that just because cr does not take ads does not mean they are unbiased. everyone has their bias, and reputation will always play a role in developing opinions.
i actually saw my first 08 ford on my way home from work today in red. the new styling is an improvement and no-way can reviewers complain anylonger for vanilla styling.
actually i agree 100% with what you posted. cr does have a bias and their bias is different than c&d bias, edmunds' bias etc. to me a most of supposed studies, statistics and reviews have no relevance when i buy a car. i don't care how many awards jd powers gives the manufacturer, if the car is coty, how many black marks cr gives it or if cr says the trunk is too small. you never really know about the ownership experience until years after you buy the car and it's a fact of life for lemons occur in every manufacturer. in general, i believe you get what you pay for. one mans no-frills stripper is another mans golden carriage. the only exception to the above comment is end of year clearance sales, where manufacturers provide incentives to move the cars. if one shops judiciously a good value can be had.
heard of a new 2.5 4cyl engine producing 170-180hp and about the same torque for the 09 ford? i am reading in other forums about this and noone has yet linked me to an article or review about this. more speculation? can anyone link me?
and the idea that just because cr does not take ads does not mean they are unbiased. everyone has their bias, and reputation will always play a role in developing opinions. at least cr's biases are personal (like yours and mine), and not bought and paid for. cr treats car evaluation like joe friday, "just the facts maam". the advertising mags seem to only get critical (less bias) when doing a comparison test. when they do an individual car review, it sounds like an endorsement, that's been paid for.
"i actually saw my first 08 ford on my way home from work today in red. the new styling is an improvement and no-way can reviewers complain anylonger for vanilla styling." did you mean new name? this car has been out for what, three years. i wish them luck especially since i recently bought a lot of ford stock at a real cheap rate. the five hundred, ford, or whatever they call it still looks odd to me. it's bubble top needs to be chopped 1 or 2 inches to look nicer. i don't think i could live with the looks as it is.
>at least cr's biases are personal.. and not bought and paid for. i've always wondered about that because of their past reluctance to change as cars changed.
i hope so! the saturn is new for 2006. that toyota debuted more than five years ago. not according to some people around here, that blindly think that a 8-year-old camcord is still better than the brand-new "american" cars built today, without even stepping foot in any of them, or taking them out for test-drives. no grad, you're not one of them...
60 hp or so will do that won't it? also a part of human nature - your coworker wants to rave about something she just paid all that money for, for her own gratifications (and ego) as well as those reassurances that might come from you when you nod approvingly. considering how she drives, hp has nothing to do with it. she wants to brag because she test-drove everything else out there, including the new toyota, and feels she made the right choice because she loved it more than the toyota. she doesn't care about my approval (or anyone else, for that matter). in fact, when she started her search a few months ago, i recommended the toyota and nissan to her. apparently, her husband was pulling for the toyota as well, but she did her own thing, and bought what she liked. and after having sat and rode in one, i agree that she made the right decision, and i too like the saturn very much as well. egos have nothing to do with it, unless one's not very confident in their own.
did you mean new name? this car has been out for what, three years. check his post again. i don't see anything else mentioned but the new styling, which indeed is new for '08, as well as the 3.5l and a new name. i wish them luck especially since i recently bought a lot of ford stock at a real cheap rate. the five hundred, ford, or whatever they call it still looks odd to me. it's bubble top needs to be chopped 1 or 2 inches to look nicer. i don't think i could live with the looks as it is. and who's fault is it that you bought stock in a company in which you find the styling of it's products "odd"? i'm sure i can speak for everyone else here when i say that that last thing i'd do is invest in a company who's in dire straits and whose product i'm not particularly fond of.
i hope so! the saturn is new for 2006. grad, is that a typo? i thought the saturn was new this year, 2007.
"egos have nothing to do with it, unless one's not very confident in their own." i would also drive the saturn over the toyota any day. the toyota is an old peoples car.
"check his post again. i don't see anything else mentioned but the new styling, which indeed is new for '08, as well as the 3.5l and a new name." that new styling, looks like the same car from 3-years-ago other than new headlights and a grill on it, big deal. the rest of the car is the same. what about the bubble top roof? "and who's fault is it that you bought stock in a company in which you find the styling of it's products "odd"?" i don't see a fault in supporting a company with a funny looking car when there are other vehicles in their line-up that show some promise including the upcoming f series trucks. my hopes an aspirations are not banked on that silly looking five hundred/err tuarus. the stock was cheap because of the poor direction of the company and products. they can only get better but i don't think this car ford/500 is the answer, but maybe they will find buyers? that will be a bonus to me and my bottom line. people who buy stock and have a diversified portfolio don't necessarily have to believe or like everything about company they invest in as long as it shows profit/potential. if you have a diversified portfolio (15 + different companies) do you really know all the products they produce and use them?
the designer of the previous generation volkswagen volkswagen designed the five hundred, now ford. you should see a distinct family resemblance. not everyone wants vertically-challenged side windows like the chrysler, and many new cars, including the saturn.
does anyone know: who was the first to put five blades on their ford, gillette or ford? the ford was out first... or was it the ford? i can't remember, anyways besides having the same name, they do kinda look alike to me.
thank you for that; things were too serious. i wonder if there was patent infringement there.
afaik, you are correct, 2007 it is.
according to nissannews.com all 08 nissan sedans add the following over 2007 models. standard abs on 2.5 models standard suzuki guards available xm radio on all trim levels. i am happy that the once hard to find abs will now be standard...took nissan long enough.
standard abs on 2.5 models standard suzuki guards available xm radio on all trim levels. i am happy that the once hard to find abs will now be standard...took nissan long enough. yeah i agree, that makes it go back on the shopping list. and suzuki guards make my heart go pitter patter.
ah. i think i know what happened in my weary brain - the only comparison test i've read of the saturn put it up against five other competitors, one of which included an honda se, that's very similar to my honda ex (which is a 2006). in my head, it was 2006 vs. 2006. these days, no cars "debut" in the model year in which they are designated. look at the toyota. it has been out for what, 15 months, all of which are 2007 models! thanks for the correction though.
available xm radio on all trim levels. xm is a beautiful thing. i have it in my car, but not in my wife's. when we're in her car listening to the radio, it feels so ancient.
is there no limit on how early a company can start selling a car designated for the next model year? i don't think you should be able to sell a car before 7/06, and call it an 07 model.
iirc, the gov't says that manufacturers are allowed to start selling upcoming models beginning january 1 of the year before the model year designation. the reason for this has to do with epa emissions and mileage ratings. so after january 1, 2007 a new model can be called a 2008 model year vehicle if the manufacturer so desires. some manufacturers also do this so that they can have extended sales periods of vehicles to make their sales volume appear higher. then again, i might not be remembering it correctly. this old brain ain't what it used to be!
some manufacturers also do this so that they can have extended sales periods of vehicles to make their sales volume appear higher. exactly, and it also makes the car seem newer than it actually is. we are only halfway through 07, and some 07 toyota's are more than a year old.
the following is from wikipedia: the model year of a product is a number used to describe approximately when a product was produced. however, the model year and the actual year of production don't always coincide. automobiles in the united states, automobile model years traditionally start in the third quarter of the preceding year. in other cases products of a previous model year can continue production, especially if a newer model hasn't yet been released. in that case, the model year remains the same until a new model is introduced. this is to ensure that the model will be seen by the public and will actually sell an amount of vehicles before a new vehicle model is produced and people will look at the newer model rather than the previous one. in the united states, for regulation purposes, government authorities allow cars of a given model year to be sold starting on january 2 of the previous calendar year.
so very true!!! initial satisfaction surveys suffer from the strongest influences in human nature, ego and the desire to have spent your money well. the complete lemon i bought in the mid-nineties.... actually received good reviews from even me..... initially! it took a few repair bills and tow trucks to turn on the lights on what had just happened.
i love the fact that cr is the only review source that would criticize a new ferrari for lack of trunk space, running too loudly, and not getting enough mpg! that is the essence of fair, consistent reviews, across the board, no matter what the price. the ultimate "perfect" car would have decent trunk space, get great mpg, and if it is loud, would be a "pleasing" sound, and only mainly when your accelerating quickly, not just loud and annoyous at idle. cr does look at the fact that "30 mpg is excellent for a powerful v6, vs. 40 mpg being excellent for a 4 banger." but all in all, even a 400 hp supercar should get good mileage in a perfect world.
she might be happy with her saturn right now.... maybe even for a period of 3 years. but watch out when that warranty expires and the car goes to hell in typical domestic fashion. watch out!!! ask her how she likes her saturn at 60,000 miles!
:sick: >maybe even for a period of 3 years. but watch out when that warranty expires and the car goes to hell in typical domestic fashion. the warranty is 100,000 miles. :surprise: such a broad brush. maybe off topic but i'll bite. i've been amazed at the assumptions made by people who haven't owned a domestic car in the 90s and later who try to make them seem unreliable. perhaps that's better saved for some of the foreign brands riding on their reputation who have had problems with their redesigns in the last few years. overall i agree with a post in some discussion i saw recently that if you take good care of a domestic just the way some take good care of the foreign product and you'll get the same results. if you don't take good care of the oil changes and maintenance schedule with a foreign brand you'll get the same result as you get when you don't take care of the domestic. i saw a honda honda knocking it's way home that was a few years old. i saw a wrecker dragging it away a few days later. the lady probably didn't take care of it--it was a model before 03 but i don't know the exact year but it was less than 10 years old. :confuse:
that is the essence of fair, consistent reviews, across the board, no matter what the price. no, that's the essence of rating vehicles like appliances. cars generate emotions and a ferrari should not be rated using the same criteria as a honda honda. two completely different products for two completely different purposes.
100,000 mile warranty from gm only applies to about 5 items. a vehicle has about ..... thousands of items?
true... but since i'm not a multi-millionaire, and like sports cars, i want a ct-type review of sports cars so i know how they'll do as "daily drivers." in addition to weekend spirited drives.
it's called the powertrain - you know, the engine and transmission, transfer cases, differentials, axles, wheel bearings, etc. that is at least a few hundred "items" and represents the 2 most expensive repairs on a vehicle - engine and transmission replacement. most of the other "thousands" of items are cheap to replace by comparison. you obviously don't own any late model (last 3 years) domestic vehicle. this isn't 1990 anymore.
i second that - i sure would rather have a 100k warranty covering the powertrain & transmission than i would one that covers the $100-200 items. having used my power train warranty once, to cover the power control module ($1200), it is indeed a big deal. powertrain = stuff that makes the car go. a lot of the other stuff on any car just plain old wears out. kirstie_h visiting host
but since i'm not a multi-millionaire, and like sports cars, i want a ct-type review of sports cars so i know how they'll do as "daily drivers." in addition to weekend spirited drives. i can see that being useful for something like a sporty mid-sized coupe or the like but not a ferrari or others like it. the latter is in no way, shape or form built to be a daily driver. the guys in modena would take your car away if they knew you used it for that. :p
i think you summed it up pretty well. some people seem to be stuck in the 90's. now i'll admit that i won't buy domestic anymore (could change in the future of course)but it's not because of reliability. ford, gm, build cars that will hold up as well as anything comming out of asia. they may average an extra problem or two, but a very, very small difference compared to 15 yrs ago.
i only average about 7k miles per year. so hyundai's ten year/100k is more valuable to me than gm's five year/100k warranty. anyone who averages less than 20k per year gets a longer power train warranty from hyundai than gm offers.
lol....kristie...ur a hoot....i luv ur comentaries...especially ur definition of powertrain....."stuff that maes your car go "....lol keep up the good work
btw....most car companys wont change the model year before april 1st....not january...anything after aprail 1st will usually get the next model years designation......
glad you like my "work." i am not super-saavy when it comes to vehicles, but i know what makes sense for me (not everybody, for me), and a long powertrain warranty makes my eyes light up in the same way that tim robbins in shawshank redemption does. i am not a real gm fan, but strategically, i do feel that the extended warranty is a good business move for them. if they could just make a convertible that i like (read: not solstice), we'd be talking. kirstie_h (really) visiting host
sometimes, sometimes not. some manufacturers, kia comes to mind, like to play the "halfsies" game, e.g. the all-new 2006.5 kia (did the same thing when the spectra was redesigned a few years ago). but it's getting more common to introduce a car very early in the year and slap the next year on it. toyota has done this multiple times in recent years; chrysler has done it; probably others i'm not remembering right now. i guess there's multiple reasons for this, including people seem to want the latest and greatest, but also it may save automakers money because they get almost two years out of one model year--assuming they shift to fall intros for subsequent years (not always the case, e.g. hyundai has been starting new model years for the hyundai in spring since the '06 debuted in the u.s. in spring of 2005).
lest we forget in all the talk about the new honda, there will be renewed competition from hyundai next spring with the 2009 hyundai. the first pics are out, and reveal a hyundai-inspired snout, revised rear (hard to make out just how revised), and a new interior with hyundai-esque dash. there are also reports of a second-generation 3.3l v6 for more power. http://www.edmunds.com/insideline/do/news/articleid=121485
maybe the 2009 hyundai will be better received than the current generation. sales have been way off on the hyundai considering the accolades and predictions. maybe a diesel version?
i have to admit, the new honda has definitely grown on me. i think it looks much better than the current generation, the front and side profile is executed much better. not sure about the rear though, too much emphasis on the bmw. generally speaking it looks good but for some reason it doesn't strike me as a honda. here are the pictures: source: jalopnik
that's pretty quick for hyundai to be redoing the hyundai... i am surprised it's not doing too well since i think it is a great value. granted, it's not a car that i found too appealing for my tastes during the few days i had it as a rental, but i was impressed at the build quality and the powertrain (except for manumatic downshifts that took way too long). in the end, i think it shows how much of a stranglehold honda and toyota has on this segment when a good quality car that is aimed at the same type of consumer that sells for several thousands less is overlooked so often. even with hyundai getting good press lately for reliability and solid build quality, they still have a long way to go before people forget or forgive them for making the shoddy cars of 15 years ago. i think hyundai is making a good move in trying to make the car visually more appealing and distinct; they need more than a "me too" ad campaign to toyota given the bad rep baggage they carry along. for the hyundai to do well, i think they need a car that says, "i deserve to be looked at as a solid car and don't need to be compared to others to be chosen." most of the characteristics of the hyundai are very good; it shouldn't take much for them to start doing really well.
of all the angles, the front 3/4 view of the honda is by far the best; it looks pretty good from that angle. but i still think the side profile has no flow and the rear 3/4 view has that strange headlight bubble and the back is just ugly. i'm surprised their leaking such complete views so early... honda must be low on current model inventory and are just trying to slow sales of other manufacturers models until they can get the new honda onto lots. anybody feeling the chrome handles? yuck if you ask me...
three years is the typical timeframe for a mid-gen redux for hyundai. the gen 3 hyundai had a similar facelift after three years, with both the front and rear being restyled for 2002. as for needing to be so good it doesn't need to be compared to other cars... i don't think any brand of mid-sized car is at that point, or will be anytime soon. it's a very competitive market.
after seeing these clear photos from all sides, my thoughts are... * oh, look how they took the taillamps off the hyundai but didn't take the part that extends onto the trunk lid. * the roofline is a dead ringer for the kia (and many other cars too, but in this class, mostly the kia). * the side character line looks acura-esque--i wonder if that's because in some markets, the car will be sold as an acura? * the door handles, especially the chrome ones, look too big for the car. * the grille is really, really ugly. hideous, imo. i'm not sure why honda would put a grille like that on an otherwise sleek-looking car. it looks very un-hondalike, except maybe the honda. it reminds me of something suzuki might do, or subaru before they came to their senses.
i'm glad you've had such good luck with honda. the one i had turned into a bottomless money pit at 20k. you'll have a really hard time convincing me to buy another one. regards: oldcem
you obviously don't own any late model (last 3 years) domestic vehicle. this isn't 1990 anymore. some of you are making it sound like domestic vehicles have done a complete 180... however, my 2004 was a different story, requiring a shop visit every few months of ownership, starting from day three: -brand new, there was a whining noise from rear end at 15-20 mph (changed pitch as speed increased) in either 1st or 2nd gear; selling dealer stated problem could not be duplicated. the noise didn't worsen, although tsb&#146;s were issued for improper fluid in rear diffs, which were known to fail. -rear passenger door wouldn&#146;t open from inside at time of purchase; repaired under warranty. -when cruising at low rpm&#146;s, a sudden lift of the throttle (such as to switch to the brake in slowing traffic) would occasionally cause an extremely harsh bang and jolt from the transmission (the first time this happened i thought i had run something over). this problem faded somewhat after the manufacturer "fix" (see below) and seemed to improve with time and mileage, however it was still present after the transmission flush at around 40k miles. -hesitation shifting from park to drive, or drive to reverse (as in 3-pt turn), requiring use of throttle and followed by a very harsh engagement; a transmission solenoid was replaced and a transmission fluid additive was added to fix (all under warranty). -squeaky front suspension; very noticeable when driving over speed bumps; front suspension bushings replaced under warranty. -brake rotors rusted heavily around 15,000 miles, causing vibration when braking from high speeds; fixed under warranty (new pads, rotors turned); problem resurfaced and became more pronounced less than 4,000 miles later. -around 15,000 miles, humming noise from rear at 60-70 mph regardless of gear; only present when throttle open. -&#147;hooting&#148; noise from a/c around 2,000 rpms; evidently common according to dealer. -rear abs sensor failed -just- out of warranty, requiring a $60 part plus labor to install. -brakes were shot (again...) at 42k miles. evidently the rotors would go first, then eat the pads... -lever to fold second row passenger seat had stopped actuating the internal release by trade-in (seat would not fold). funny thing was, on the edmunds "problems and solutions" board, there were many people having these same problems, but we were all irritated mainly because our dealers acted like nothing was wrong... what good is a warranty if the manufacturer constantly denies there is a problem and won't honor it?
honda and toyota have the best 4 cylinder's in the business, and therefore many opt for that engine choice. hmmm...i thought they had the best v6, too...so why is that not what people opt for? ford doesn't have a viable or decent 4 cylinder, so everyone gets the "somewhat decent" v6. that is a pretty extreme opinion. are there any facts behind it? i'd like to know what specifically is unviable and indecent about the ford/mazda i4? mine seems pretty viable and decent to me. i think reality is that there is less difference between the i4s than there is between the v6s.
there was a recent vehicle that debuted on jan. 2 with the next year's designation, but i can't remember which one.
anybody feeling the chrome handles? yuck if you ask me... agree, but i would pretty much say that about any and all chrome on any car . i do think the new honda is a big improvement appearance-wise, though. i too think it looks best in the front 3/4 view. lose the chrome door handles on the gray one and it's not bad (the gray makes the other chrome less noticable).
at least at ford the turnaround started with new models introduced after the 2005 model year. ford and mercury are equal to or better than the camcords right now (even by cr standards) and that is almost a 180 from the 10 yr old ford. the new 500 (now ford), ford, ford, ford have all proven much more reliable than previous models. even the ford is now a cr recommended buy after all the initial recall problems. ford at least has made a significant process change in how they design and build vehicles and while i wouldn't call it a 180 it's at least a 135. the launch of the edge and lincoln was delayed almost a month because ford requires the plant to run for 5 straight days without a single assembly defect. several times they got to 3 or 4 days and had to start over. but they made it. yes, the dealer network is still a problem and the manufacturers unfortunately don't have much control over that. not directly at least.
most people have good luck with honda. people do not generally say their honda was a dud, but it happens. no manufacturer is immune from a lemon. but i feel the same way about ford and nissan. would really have a hard time convincing me to buy another one.
"ford and mercury are equal to or better than the camcords right now (even by cr standards" cr may think so, the buying public doesn't think so and neither do i. the ford has a long way to go before it becomes equal or better to a toyota or honda. not that it's a bad car, it's just that the toyota and honda are that much better. the 2008 honda will raise the bar even more, you can bet on it.
i was referring to quality and it wouldn't matter if the ford was twice as good as the camcords in every possible category - they aren't going to win over camcord loyalists overnight. there are way too many satisfied camcord owners who won't switch until they encounter a problem or another vehicle comes out with some feature they decide they need. and the 2009 ford will also raise the bar with an upgraded interior (see the ford flex for an idea of the new interior design), hybrid model, twin turbo direct injection 2.5l i4 and exterior styling that looks better than the 08 honda (to me).
hybrid model this one i believe. twin turbo direct injection 2.5l i4 source please. what's ford trying to do? make a fordspeed ford? :p exterior styling that looks better than the 08 honda (to me). pointless statement. first of all, beauty is in the eyes of the beholder. second, if styling is really that important of a factor then imo, hyundai, saturn and ford should be outselling the toyota/honda by now. also, i am with those satisfied camcord owners. i just don't see the point of messing with successful and proven purchasing decisions.
when hyundai....ford///mercury...etc. start to produce cars that go 300k miles...fairly trouble free like cam-cord....then you'll start to see them outsell..( if they keep their prices down) also...imo...the4 diesels will start taking over completely once they get a consistant 45mpg.
also, i am with those satisfied camcord owners. i just don't see the point of messing with successful and proven purchasing decisions. but some people want something different and you have to understand that. if you ask me the hyundai is the one, that if done better, threatens to outsell the camcord because it is a bit more vanilla than a ford, nissan, mazda, etc. those latter cars are more niche fillers if nothing else because they are edgier and have different personalities. they stand out in one or two categories whereas the camcords don't really stand out in any specific categories and do everything rather well. the ford ford and ford were always noted as being like that in mt which supposedly explained their appeal to the masses. makes sense to me.
don't think this was mentioned here but there are some changes for the 2008 ford . most notable are standard abs and the new sport package which includes 18" wheels, a black chrome grille, and a sport tuned suspension. i'm trying to find some pics of the new wheels and grille but am not having any luck so far.
it sounds like the hybrid ford might be available next spring as opposed to next fall. i guess we'll find out at la or detroit auto shows. as to the twin force i4 2.5l direct injection this has been hinted at by derrick kuzak and confirmed by an inside source. power output is rumored to be 260 hp but with i4 fuel economy. a dsg type transmission called powershift is also in the works but not confirmed for the ford.
when hyundai....ford///mercury...etc. start to produce cars that go 300k miles...fairly trouble free like cam-cord....then you'll start to see them outsell. oh please - most people don't keep cars more than 5 or 6 years at the most and i bet you can count the number of 300k camcords on two hands. 150k is a more reasonable target and there is no reason to believe any of the current mid-size sedans won't go 150k without major problems. it's not 1990 anymore.
how many people do you know drive a car for 30k miles a year for at least 10 years? not many i know of. average miles on a car these days is around 12k a year. i drive a lot less than that. in the rust belt, ten years is a long time to own a car and still have it rust-free. (come to think of it though, the only car i ever owned that showed rust after only five years was a honda--a honda.) if you peruse the hyundai ownership discussions here, you'll see many reports from owners with over 100k reliable miles on their hyundai over 5-7 years. that's enough to build a reputation for long-term reliability, imo. but hyundai outsell camcord? not anytime soon. hyundai currently has neither the manufacturing capacity or dealer network to come anywhere close to honda or toyota in sales volume. their current production in alabama is limited to 300k a year right now--and that must be shared with the hyundai fe, for which sales are surging. so if hyundai increases sales of the hyundai from the current 12k or so to about 15k a month, that will max out capacity in alabama if they do 10k hyundai fes a month. then they have to find excess capacity overseas or expand the alabama plant.
sales have been way off on the hyundai considering the accolades and predictions. sales numbers would indicate that this is a true statement. anyone have any theories as to why this is the case? did the ford ford steal its sales from the hyundai? did some other model? why would a car with such good reviews not sell as well as expected? it seems to be a mystery.
some people just don't want to buy a hyundai regardless of the product itself. i admit i'm one of them but i wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to someone else. the ford probably stole a few hyundai sales but not that many. it's probably a combination of several factors including advertising.
did ford take away a few potential sales? likely. there are cross-shopping all over the midsize segment so potential takeaways are likely for every car out there. here is one of the reasons for the fall: hyundai started a program to get "as many butts into the hyundai as possible". they sent a great number of units into fleet in 2006 in hopes for improved brand recognition. the sales dip is reported by way of year-over-year (yoy) (e.g. june 2007 vs. june 2006). of course, comparing the normal amount sold in 2007, and the large amount of units reported last year (2006), including the ones sent via the fleet program, would be a skewed comparison. i don't think it'd be surprising to see sales dip throughout the rest of this year using the yoy comparison. the previous generation barely made 10k/month during its cycle, while the current hyundai has made that number stand up. the other issue, as stated by backy, capacity restraint at the alab. plant. also, the demand for i4 were higher than hyundai officials estimated.
i have to admit, the new honda has definitely grown on me. louiswei, those are the best photos i have seen of the 2008 and my initial reaction is just the opposite of yours: i like the looks of the 2007s better. different strokes for different folks, i guess. not sure about the rear though, too much emphasis on the bmw. generally speaking it looks good but for some reason it doesn't strike me as a honda. what is a "bmw?" forgive my ignorance. i did have a similar reaction: that it doesn't remind me of a honda much. but i don't know if that is a good or bad thing. styling-wise, most of the asian cars have a plain-jane, lookalikeness to them, not very distinctive. maybe the designs are too subtle for me to appreciate. the honda, toyota, hyundai, kia, subarus et al all look generic to me, even the auras. that's one of the reasons why my wife and i chose a 2007 ford: distinctive styling; it doesn't get mistaken for anything else. we consider that to be a plus but not everyone would, of course.
most of the national incentives for nissan endend july 2, 2007 according to their website. anyone know of the current incentives yet? the nissan specifically...
bmw - bmw. bmw, 530i, 545i, bmw, etc.
anybody feeling the chrome handles? yuck if you ask me... a minor point, to be sure, but that was my first reaction, too.
not a very good report card, benderofbows. what make and model car?
twin turbo direct injection 2.5l i4 source please. what's ford trying to do? make a fordspeed ford? here is a small byte on it. more detailed info is available on some subscription site called autonews.com apparently but i don't have access to it.
if you ask me the hyundai is the one, that if done better, threatens to outsell the camcord because it is a bit more vanilla than a ford, nissan, mazda, etc "if done better" ? it's hard to resist.....but...duh! the hyundai over the nissan? i think nissan's huge sales lead over the hyundai is in no jeopardy.
the other issue, as stated by backy, capacity restraint at the alab. plant. also, the demand for i4 were higher than hyundai officials estimated. you make it sound like there are no hyundai sitting on dealers' lots beacause every one they make is being snatched up quickly, and they can't make enough of them. not.
"if done better" ? it's hard to resist.....but...duh! the hyundai over the nissan? i think nissan's huge sales lead over the hyundai is in no jeopardy. you're missing my point. i'm saying the ford, nissan, mazda, and others like them would never outsell the toyota or honda because they are not nearly as mainstream and offer a more sporting experience overall. the hyundai seems to be the more mainstream car but it needs to be better to pose a threat. no matter how much better you make the others they just won't appeal to everyone.
when hyundai....ford///mercury...etc. start to produce cars that go 300k miles...fairly trouble free like cam-cord... so now the claims are for 300k trouble free miles...give me a break, that is not happening with any brand of car on any kind of regular basis.
i have a hard time living with a vehicle for 30k miles let alone 300k!!! of course it takes us a good 4 years to reach 30k.
urnews, that "not very good report card" was earned by a $30,000 ford ford. i expected much more for that kind of money. the previous generation explorers were solid, dependable trucks, but after the 2002 redesign they had widespread quality issues through at least 2004, most of which didn't show up on the "initial quality" studies. coming off of that experience, i had trouble seriously considering a less expensive ford sedan, or any ford for that matter. the biggest slap in the face was being able to go online and look up the tsbs that specifically detailed my problems, but not being able to get any of the dealers to help me out. even more, the "fixes" suggested by ford were just band-aids. you read the description of my problems. fluid additives? c'mon, ford. this was 2004. i expected my new cars transmission to shift smoothly, my brake rotors to last more than 15,000 miles, and my engine to crank on the first try, every time. ford didn't deliver that for me. it would be hard to give them another shot.
but not being able to get any of the dealers to help me out. even more, the "fixes" suggested by ford were just band-aids. you read the description of my problems. fluid additives? c'mon, ford a friend of mine had a 2004 ford v8 that had tranny problems so i see where you are coming from. he dumped it for a loaded '04 chevrolet. otoh, i have an '06 ford v6 which has been flawless for the 13k miles we've used it. it is a different tranny than those past models though.
you obviously don't own any late model (last 3 years) domestic vehicle. this isn't 1990 anymore. if you change that statement to it isn't 2000 anymore, i'll buy it. otherwise i'm not buying your sales pitch. i had a 1995 domestic for one.... and have driven a few rental fodder vehicles up to 2003, for two!
actually, it might be kinda fun driving a ferrari around as a daily driver.
akirby - it strikes me that you must work for and/or supervise ford's 'rumor mill' marketing department a seemingly never ending series of unkept and/or late arriving 'promises'. ford needs to actually do something - not talk about it!
stuff that makes the car go is all covered in powertrain warranty? i seriously wonder if batteries, alternator, serpentine, and timing belts are covered. i wonder if the starter cables, ignition, and other wires are covered. if you can't start you can't go. if your battery dies because the alternator isn't charging the electrical system will die and the car will die on the road while running (at least it did in my domestic) how about the brakes, hard to go if you can't stop safely. is it okay to "go" if your gas tank is leaking because of a bad o-ring? you can "go" without an ac, but it's hot in ca, goodluck with that! also, an a/c repair could cost close to just as much as a transmission replacement, potentially. there are lots of expensive repairs and "have to have in order to go" items not covered in the powertrain i believe.
i'm not going to get into a battle, because that's completely pointless. i'm simply going to state the blindingly obvious: many of those are wear-and-tear items and can deteriorate at different rates depending on driver/road conditions, and manufacturers would be foolish to warrant such items (and would soon go broke doing so). we get that you don't like & don't want to buy domestic vehicles. domestic vehicle vs import vehicle quality is not the topic of this discussion, so we need to move on.
actually, it might be kinda fun driving a ferrari around as a daily driver. i totally agree but it's not realistic unfortunately. :sick: a 500 hp v8 in one of these cars along with awd would be really cool too.
my statement wasn't about imports or domestics in general, but more specifically that a 100k powertrain warranty with 3 years bumper to bumper is still only marginally better than a 4 year bumper to bumper with 50k powertrain. yes, many of the items i mentioned are wear and tear items. but they shouldn't wear or tear on year 3 and one day! nor mile 36,101. would anyone argue that all warranties shouldn't be at least 4 years and 50k "bumper to bumper." i realize that bumper to bumper is not longer the same as it might of been 15 years ago, with exclusions galore in the fine print, but still, most everything i mentioned should last at least long enough to outlive the warranty.
you're forgetting that the unkept promises of the past were under totally different management (pre-fields and mulally). in the past ford would publicly announce things and then not deliver or deliver late. they're now much more tight lipped about new technology (publicly) these days and all this info is coming from inside sources. i think they've learned to under promise and over achieve.
so by your logic honda should offer a 300,000 mile bumper to bumper warranty? last time i checked honda was still 3/36 b2b. my issue with gms powertrain warranty is that for most drivers it is only a 5 yr/70k mile warranty because they don't drive more than 12k miles/yr. and you're forgetting that it would take multiple failures of non-powertrain components to equal one powertrain failure from a cost perspective.
and, your point is off-topic - we are focusing specifically on discussion and questions about midsize sedans and not on manufacturer quality in general, or manufacturers' warranty programs. please review the list of vehicles mentioned in the discussion header to help keep conversation on-track.
manufacturers would be foolish to warrant such items (and would soon go broke doing so) manufacturers obviously do these kind of things to represent a quality and/or faith in their own products and mostly because they have to as a function of sales. it was, after all, the koreans that effectively started this kind of thing in an attempt to 'live down' some rather questionable products sold not that many years ago. the consumer, in turn, perceives a level of quality that may or may not be there. as far as 'going broke', be careful of what you wish for, these long term warranties have no value if there is no company left to stand behind it. given cerebus' apparent (and rumored) plans to sell off chrysler in pieces, how much exactly do you suppose their warranties are worth?
i'm sure that ford and hyundai are both making great strides in quality when it comes to their midsize sedan offerings. the intital quality reports sure seem to bear that out. however, i for one won't be convinced until 2012, when i can check the long-term reliability ratings of the 2006 hyundai and ford. if they are still rated as good as honda and toyota vehicles of the same vintage, then i'll certainly consider whatever midsize sedans hyundia and ford are offering in 2012, so long as they are still receiving high "initial quality" ratings.
i think they've learned to under promise and over achieve. being a "ford guy" myself i see exactly where you are coming from ackirby. however, the general consumer needs a lot of convincing to go back to a domestic vehicle at this point. that is where the real challenge lies. the honda and toyota are still very well executed products and all the others really need to show the honda and toyota faithful that they need to try the other guys too. the recent good press will help but it ain't gonna work on its own. and i have yet to see anything from the big three, marketing wise, that would make me say wow i gotta have one of those! so maybe leaking this info will help too but they do need to deliver while it's still on people's minds and that doesn't leave a whole lot of time between leak and release.
if they are still rated as good as honda and toyota vehicles of the same vintage, then i'll certainly consider whatever midsize sedans hyundia and ford are offering in 2012, so long as they are still receiving high "initial quality" ratings. so what would you buy now? the honda isn't tops at cr or j.d. anymore iirc. it is still high in the ratings but don't you want the best? :p
folks like the editors of edmunds.com disagree with you on that one. they have multiple hyundai as their "most wanted" for 2007. also, the facts disagree with you. take a look for example at the epa charts--hyundai is #1 in its epa class. hyundai (considered by epa a mid-sized car) is near the top of its epa class. you also forgot some categories that are important for mid-sized sedan buyers--not everyone is focused on power, for example. the hyundai has class-leading standard safety equipment. important for many people. i think it may also be tops in this class in interior room--also important for many people. also tops (tied with kia and mitsubishi) for warranty coverage--important for many people.
coming off of that experience, i had trouble seriously considering a less expensive ford sedan, or any ford for that matter. bender, what's the old investment saying, "past experience is no guarantee of future performance?" even so, given your experiences with the ford, i, too, would be leery of ford products. our experience with past and present ford products has been quite good for the most part -- a fuel pump here, an alternator there, regular maintenance items, brakes, batteries, tires (but no abnormal wear). we now have an exceptional ford, lincoln, mercury dealer in town, sherwood of salisbury (md.) and that played a big part in our decision to buy a new 2007 sel awd v6 ford from them. many times a car or truck is only going to be as good as the dealer that backs it up. apparently, you had a problem in that area as well, unfortunately for both you and the fomoco. previous bad experiences often tip the scale when it comes time to purchase a car, either new or previously owned. the fine track record for honda and toyota serves their manufacturers well and is a huge contributing factor to their continued position as sales leaders in the mid-size sedan segment. it's highly unlikely that any of the other manufacturers will overtake honda and toyota unless honda and toyota really screw something up, especially in the power train department. although styling, handling are important, the most crucial factor of vehicle ownership may well be reliability. except for poor in-honda mileage, 14.8 mpg, our ford has been perfect for seven months and its first 3,700 miles. yes, i'm knocking on wood. will it be that way at 37,000 miles or 107,000 miles? no one knows but the longest dodge begins with a single step.
...and folks, here is your moment of zen. no one knows but the longest dodge begins with a single step. -thene
i was referring to quality and it wouldn't matter if the ford was twice as good as the camcords in every possible category - they aren't going to win over camcord loyalists overnight. actually, ford would win loyalists overnight from all manufacturers if they were able to be twice as good! let's look at what twice as good as an honda would be... (a 5 year old design by the way). 488 hp and 430 lb/ft of torque while getting 40/60 mpg, oh yeah baby! :p a warranty of 6 years or 72k miles, with a powertrain warranty of 8 years and 120k miles! oh yes, more please! a price tag half that of the honda... so i should be able to get a top of the line ford for around $14k out the door! i'm buying!
quality is in the eyes of the beholder. while i don't see the ford as non-quality, it doesn't match up to toyota or honda. (imho, and i guess a lot of "camcord" buyers agree)
you make it sound like there are no hyundai sitting on dealers' lots beacause every one they make is being snatched up quickly, and they can't make enough of them. not. where did i ever say that? you're twisting my words. what i said were facts - capacity constraints and higher demand of i4s. confirm with hyundai if you'd like. the latest june sales report the hyundai up 28% so looks like they are making up the 4 cylinder shortage.
i purchased a 1992 honda at 166k miles and took it to 200k, and it ran just fine. my friend had an early nineties honda with about 275k, and he was nearing 300k and going strong last i heard. i think 300k honda's and civics, and toyota's and toyota's are a dime a dozen moreso than counted on one or two hands!!!
if you peruse the hyundai ownership discussions here, you'll see many reports from owners with over 100k reliable miles on their hyundai over 5-7 years. that's enough to build a reputation for long-term reliability, imo. 100k miles and 5 to 7 years maybe be enough to show reliability to some people, maybe even the average person, but to the person looking for some of the best stuff out there, you have to look to cars that reach 15 years and 250k+ plus regularly. that is honda and toyota quality.
quality is in the eyes of the beholder. kd, beauty (styling) may be in the eyes of the beholder but quality (fit and finish) is something that can be measured. it's quantitative not subjective: the paint is flawless or it's not; the body seams are aligned or they aren't. an imperfection is an imperfection. all cars usually have one or two (more?). i have given our 2007 ford the once over with a fine-tooth comb, metaphorically, several times and have found no flaws. i find the workmanship to be perfect, at least so far. are there things that i would like to see improved or added? of course. a light in the glove compartment would be nice. is that a quality issue? not hardly. would i rather see a shark fin antenna rather than one with a mast? absolutely. but that, too, is not a quality item, more of a personal preference. a piece of molding that falls off or is misaligned is a quality item, a flaw, something that can be scored, rated. where it is placed is subjective. how it is attached is not. again, honda and toyota usually score highly in the area of quality. they both have high standards. but so do the ford, if ours is typical, and i believe that to be the case.
for any buyer that has ever had a lemon-like vehicle in the past is reliability, dependability, and quality. unless you have time and money to burn. for me, the following are crucial: power to economy ratio.... i want maximum power for every gallon of gas my engine will drink. if you have the most hp and the most mpg, then it's a complete no brainer to me. price to quality to reliability to dependability to warranty ratio. again, a warranty should be irrelevant to a well-built vehicle. interior quality of materials and craftsmanship. i love the interior quality and build of an audi, but honda's are so much more ergonomical and user friendly. they are both excellent examples of how to do interiors properly. and lastly... (but not necessarily least) handling and fun factor on the twisties.
quality is in the eyes of the beholder. :surprise: i have to agree that quality is quantitative.
if 1992 honda and toyota are a "regular" occurance, how come i don't see hardly any of them on the road, when so many were sold? the "average person" would need to drive a car for 20 years to hit 250k miles. few people stick with a car that long. if they could, before rust catches up. i owned a 1991 caravan and it was rock-solid reliable. looked and drove like new when i sold it after eight years. would it have held up for another 7 years? maybe. would i want to own it for another 7 years? nope. my needs had gone far beyond that vehicle in that time. if a dodge can hold up for a long time, why pay the premium for an honda or toyota just because you want to drive it into the ground? at the end, you'll have a car that is worth almost nothing. so save your money up front and buy the lowest-priced car that meets your needs--like a ford or mazda or hyundai maybe. they'll all last many years with proper care.
probably less than .5% of population drives a car for 250k. why would you drive 1 car for so long? no one buys a car for that kind of reliability any more. i had acura cls and honda honda and both cars had multiple tranny issues. gladly i bought a extended warranty, but man those cars really sucked. especially my 01 cls. 3 blown trannies! i live in acura board, and man both cl and tl's tranny broke down faster than 80's hyundai hyundai! only honda decent enough to last 150k in my family was my sister's 96 honda. but finally broke down at 160k, she later traded to toyota which really isn't a bullet proof car. bottom line, honda and toyota quality is highly highly overrated imo. acura cls probably had 10 times more tranny issues than all of recent hyundai combined. my 99 honda had a lemon tranny as well. honda and civics were ok, but i was never satisfied with my 03 honda. it was a 1st year car, but had too many little annoying problems. not a big problem, but annoying problem. that's why i traded my car to acura which has been decent so far, but way way too thirsty. bottom line, no brand has a bullet proof quality. you are a dumb homer if you think your honyota will last forever.
so if the 09 ford gets a gasoline twin turbo direct injection 2.5l i4 with 260 hp and better fuel mileage than a v6 camcord plus an updated exterior and interior you'd consider it?
300k fairly trouble-free miles, not completely trouble free. it's gonna cost you some repair and maintenance costs to get some honda's and toyota's to 300,000 miles (but some will get there w/o spending a dime other than maintenance). but that "some" isn't all that much with honda's and toyota's. your repair bills will be small, and very infrequent. i'm not sure donald trump nor bill gates could have afforded getting my mid 90's dodge to get to 300k miles, let alone 100k.
i think 300k honda's and civics, and toyota's and toyota's are a dime a dozen moreso than counted on one or two hands you thinking it does not make it so. i did a search for used honda on autotrader, there were none with 300k mi, within 50 miles of me...this would include a metropolitan area with population over 2 million. there was only one that was over 200k miles (206,000). for the toyota there were also none at over 300k. the two highest were at 262k and 211k (these were the only ones over 200k). for sake of comparison, since the ford is too new, i looked for the ford ford. there was one with over 200k mi (230,000) within 50 miles. i did not look for the compacts, as this is a midsize discussion .
if the updated exterior and interior is free of bargain basement plastics and parts, or panel gaps, yes, i'd consider it as long as ford matches hyundai's warranty. i might even settle for gm's lessor warranty. it also should be cheaper than a camcord, since i know resale value will stink. i'd also want to make sure the new ford epa ratings match the real world withing the standard and typical 20% bs factor. so i'd need a full tank test drive, or around 350 miles. and lastly, to consider a ford, i'd need to know i'm getting a rental vehicle for free from the dealer everytime i have to bring that baby in during it's nice long warranty.
for the sake of argument... would you advertise that you are trying to sell a vehicle with over 200k miles? i think if i was paying for the advertisement i'd discretely leave off that information and let the pictures and test drive speak for themselves (though most all callers did ask how many miles were on the vehicle). i bet most of the sellers on autotrader don't list the mileage when the mileage isn't a good sales point.
good grief - you can find an excuse for everything. you should be a politician.
probably less than .5% of population drives a car for 250k. why would you drive 1 car for so long? no one buys a car for that kind of reliability any more. ever heard of the used car market? there is no such thing as resale value without it!!!! there are people buying and paying for used cars out there. there are people that can't afford to buy new. there are people like my current wife who 5 years ago needed a car for $3,500 or so dollars and found a wonderful 92 honda with 166k+ miles on it. it was fantastic for the next couple of years (perfect no, but still economical to keep running). we kept if for over two years, got it to over 200k miles, and sold it for $2,700 cash. not bad. so it might take 3 owners or more to get to 300k and 15 years typically, but its going to take a honda or toyota to typically find a buyer (with some resale value) that 2nd and 3rd time on the market. maybe even a 4th or 5th.
it's gonna cost you some repair and maintenance costs to get some honda's and toyota's to 300,000 miles.....your repair bills will be small, and very infrequent. that's what all those toyota toyota owners thought right before toyota told them they had to pay for a new engine after theirs sludged up. but i guess that's fixed now with the class action lawsuit.
yes, let's not let inconvenient facts get in the way of your preconcieved notions.
again, who says a car can only have one owner to reach 300k miles? who says the 2nd, 3rd, or 4th owner can't reach the 20 year or 300k mark? furthermore, why do you think honda and toyota enjoy superior resale value? magic? or is it being able to enjoy relatively trouble-free performace after 10 years and 100k?
wolverine, you say you've owned all these acura's and honda's that were not reliable. so i have a question. why do you keep buying them? maybe the other brands will be even worse?
automotive lease guide says the ford resale value after 3 years is higher than a toyota and only 2% lower than an honda. did i mention it's not 1990 anymore?
the ford been out for 3 years already???? wow.... how did that happen? where have i been. i'll take predictions of the future with a grain of salt.... thank you very much. does automotive lease guide also recommend the rate of return for the s&p 500 for the next 3 years?
quality is like a fine wine, some people don't get it. feel of the materials, fit and finish, extra touches, smoothness of the engine, economy etc. the honda trumps, a premium is paid over others and for good reason. it is a hot seller and for a lot of people a no-brainer when looking for a family sedan. it nearly was for me, but awd and turbo was the trump card.
for what it's worth, the engine sludge problems are not slowing toyota or lexus down. you may not elect to purchase a toyota product, but a lot of people have elected to make the toyota their next purchase. good grief one can't spit out the window without hitting an es350.
i think the strong resale value on honda and toyota comes from the overall solid quality and reliability of the cars, and the fact that much of bhe car buying public hasn't wised up yet to the fact that there is little difference in quality and reliability now across almost all the mid-sized offerings. i just laugh when i see some of the resale prices on honda and toyota. i can get a really nice new car with a new-car warranty and all the latest safety and convenience features for less.
i think dealers try to overcharge significantly on recent model used honda's and toyota, they almost cost as much as a new one! however, i don't think a 3 year old honda will cost you as much as a comparable domestic mid-sizer. (true market value, not advertised costs). furthermore, i don't think the quality and reliability gap is as close or as closed as you'd like to think. but most importantly, that brand new domestic won't be worth much in 3 years, and that honda will hardly depreciate at all from year 3 to 6.
the alg resale values are more than just "predictions". if you go to a bank to lease a car what do you think they use to determine the residual value? a crystal ball? alg may be wrong but if they are then a lot of financial institutions stand to lose a lot of money.
did the article say it only happened to domestic cars? did you ever think just for a second that it might be due to poor maintenance? or do you really think honda and toyota run forever with no maintenance ever? your bias is clear and since you're not willing to listen to hard facts i guess we'll just stop here.
i just laugh when i see some of the resale prices on honda and toyota. i can get a really nice new car with a new-car warranty and all the latest safety and convenience features for less. what you need to think about is, people (like me) would rather drive a two year old honda, than a brand new ford, and they may be laughing at you. this equals high resale. i guess you have to be one of "us" to understand.
i guess someone would have to be part of the "us" group to understand. it makes no sense to me. to me, buying any used car is a gamble. never know what the previous owner did or didn't do to it. and many times, they sell their cars because they know something you don't. i swore off buying used cars long, long ago. no way in the world i pay more for a used car that somebody possibly abused the hell out of, realized what he did, and decided to unload it, than i would for a brand new, 100k warrantied car. just because it had an "h" on the grille, or the toyota logo. each to their own i guess.
no way in the world i pay more for a used car that somebody possibly abused the hell out of, realized what he did, and decided to unload it, than i would for a brand new, 100k warrantied car. in reality, most used cars are not abused before they are traded in, or returned from lease. i have a couple of relatives who have never owned a car past the warranty. it's like they think when the warranty runs out, things will automatically start breaking. these cars are maintained by the dealer, and taken care of (detailed monthly). they would be a great used car for anyone. there are plenty of great used cars out there. and if it has an "h" on the grill, you don't need a warranty, right?
your joking statement is really "twice as good at half the price." that would make it something close to 4 times as good. and, your twice as good warranty is 1 year or 12k miles better than hyundai's b2b but 2 years less (and 20k miles more) than hyundai's power train.
i guess someone would have to be part of the "us" group to understand. it makes no sense to me. to me, buying any used car is a gamble. never know what the previous owner did or didn't do to it. and many times, they sell their cars because they know something you don't. i swore off buying used cars long, long ago. no way in the world i pay more for a used car that somebody possibly abused the hell out of, realized what he did, and decided to unload it, than i would for a brand new, 100k warrantied car. just because it had an "h" on the grille, or the toyota logo. i totally agree. i'll never buy used for the exact reasons you state. i've got my eyes on a hyundai when my daughter reaches driving age in a little over a year. i want her to have a safe, new car with (hopefully) no issues. a used honda? na. a new hyundai for the same money? probably. and i'm a diehard honda-er. but they don't have a lock on building good cars.
c&d thinks maybe my09 we'll see it in the ford. that's right in line with what i've read on other forums from ford sources. it appears, from the articles i've read, that the twinforce di 2.5l i4 option for the ford will get 30% better fuel economy than the current i4 and offer more power. at what cost i don't know. add a little restyle inside and out (which we've possibly seen before here), another plant to meet demand and they're back in business. :shades:
hyundai hyundai's long-term reliability rating has been climbing since approx the 2000 model year. granted that was the previous generation hyundai, but if we can assume honda/toyota reliability ratings carry forward from one generation to another, we should apply the same standard to the hyundai unless proven otherwise. you're asking for a 6 year track record. hyundai already has a 7 or so year track record.
there are plenty of great used cars out there. i won't argue that, but there are plenty more used cars that are junk, abused, mistreated ect. and if it has an "h" on the grill, you don't need a warranty, right? when did i ever imply that? i've been fortunate. i've been able to buy new for awhile now. not anything i want, (never spent more than 23k) but if for some reason my finances changed, and i had to lower my spending amount to 15k, i would get the best new car i could for 15k. not a used, out of warrnaty one becase of the badge, whichever one it was. and actually pay more for that used one to boot.
this suggests that cars aren't lasting more than the warranty periods. well, my '05 hyundai gls sv power train warranty is 10 years. if it quits after 10 years in will have cost me $1670 per year, plus 1/10th of the sales tax and other minor gov't charges. if a camcord quits at the end of it's warranty, what is it's annual cost? that's a beauty of the hyundai warranty...no major expenses until after the car loan has been paid off.
've got my eyes on a hyundai when my daughter reaches driving age in a little over a year. thats funny, i've had the same discussion with my girls, the first of which will be driving in a year also. she actually went with me when i bought my 07 nissan (i wanted her to see how damn expensive cars are) and saw several cars on the lot that she told me she would like to drive. i then informed her that her first car would most likely be domestic, or kia/hyundai. she said it wasn't fair. :p
"that's not fair ." ask her what "fair" means. many people say something is not "fair" when they should be saying they do not like something. but any kid should be happy if his/her parents by him a car, new or used, regardless of make or model. tell her not to act spoiled, or else she won't get any car.
i thought i would be disappointed with a then-7 year old honda automatic 4-door. plastic hubcaps, 130 horsepower, automatic. as it turns out, it still gets me from a to b, and when i turned 16, it didn't matter what kind of car it was. it was a set of wheels!
hi, well maintained 06 toyota se with 38000 miles on it. owner's offer is 16000. what u think? shud i go for it?
oh heck no... is it a v6 or i4? for a v6 i wouldn't pay more than $14,500 and for an i4 not a dime more than $13,000.
part of its my fault. i've let her know of my disdain for domestic cars, and have always talked highly of the honda/nissan cars i've owned. when informed that she would probably end up in a ford/gm due to price (she'll pay for it herself, i'll just co-sign) her reaction was more or less "but you said ford arn't any good" but my first car was a i4 <100hp 85 1/2 ford escort with a 4spd manual. that was in '89 i think, and i was gratefull to have it. i realy missed it when i totaled it and ended up in a 1981 chevrolet chevette.
i4. edmunds says 16,000. my offer was 15,2 and thinking if i shud up it.
i think dealers try to overcharge significantly on recent model used honda's and toyota, they almost cost as much as a new one! it isn't just honda and toyota. when i sold my mazda on my own, i noticed dealer ads for used mazda's asking as much or more than what i paid for mine when it was new. it was easy for me to undercut the dealers and still get far more than i would have received as a trade in.
i think dealers try to overcharge significantly on recent model used honda's and toyota, they almost cost as much as a new one! welcome to the subprime world in car sales. its amazing - a guy with weak credit goes in to buy a new honda. the prime lender says no, but the subprimer says ok to the used one costing the same or more as the new one! so the guy that has a tough time getting a good loan for various reasons ends up with a costlier loan on an older vehicle. kinda backwards, but its the way of the world. they also use the used vehicles as bait for the new. you say "why would i pay $26,000 for a used one when i can buy the new one for $26,500?".
relating back to a recent thread, this is an interesting choice: a used toyota for which the bumper-to-bumper warranty is expired, probably due for new tires soon (maybe it has new tires?), expensive 60k service due in 22k miles, and the previous-generation design... which was rated by most professional reviewers as behind cars like the ford and hyundai... vs. a brand-new mid-sized car like a ford, mercury, hyundai, kia, or even a loaded hyundai (mid-sized interior, compact length) for about the same money. i'd go with the brand-new car (i'm very particular about break-in and maintenance), but if the toyota were certified with an extended warranty and had all maintenance up to date and new rubber, and was in impeccable comdition, that could make it tougher.
it suggests to me that the people couldn't really afford the car in the first place, nor the proper maintenance needed to keep the cars in service. oldcem
yeah, and if you like to ride in a marshmellow on wheels... ok, ok, sorry that's a bit harsh, but really, what do you find appealing about that car? do you like driving at all? or is it just a way to get from point a to b and that's it? granted, my priorities are a little different, but when you consider most other midsize cars are just as reliable over a five year period according to consumer reports and jd powers, i don't see the appeal of a toyota at all. especially a used one for 16k.
on my way home from work, it seemed like everyone was way too impatient to get their holiday started, so there was a lot of really bad driving, much moreso than usual. so i'm driving at 45mph passing cars stopped at a stop light in the lane that goes the opposite way as me, and out pops a bmw making a left turn right in front of me. to my left are all the cars waiting for the light to turn green, and to the right is a concrete wall...nowhere to go. slam on my brakes and stop 3 feet from a fairly new 3 series bmw and a really freaked out girl sitting in the bmw's passenger seat. my first thought was #$% @^&amp ;*!!!. my second thought was glad i drove a mazda with some of the best brakes in this class. so lesson #1... drive safely over the holidays people!!! expect some really bad driving and be patient. and lesson #2... if you're in the market for a new car, remember, good brakes can not only save you the hassle of getting your car fixed and appraised by an adjuster, but it could keep you and others from getting injured.
"she might be happy with her saturn right now.... maybe even for a period of 3 years. but watch out when that warranty expires and the car goes to hell in typical domestic fashion." i have owned american domestic vehicles for over 25-years and have never experienced your nightmares. i have seen and heard the same regarding japanese cars, but instead of calling them names and doubting their quality, i just take it as the one that got away during assembly, or the owners fault at not maintaining it. the same can be said for a japanese car if not maintained, but the fact that you appear to actually believe what you are saying is pretty sad.
when informed that she would probably end up in a ford/gm due to price (she'll pay for it herself, i'll just co-sign) her reaction was more or less "but you said ford arn't any good" and what was your response to that, did you admit that you had exxagerated?
yes, i did. i know ford builds pretty good cars now, as do gm and chrysler. my only problem with ford and the other domestic cars are problems i had 15 yrs ago. same held true with my last purchase. i love my nissan, but looking at it logicaly, it is pretty hard to justify the extra 2-3k it cost over the ford. i do think nissan puts a better engine in the nissan, and the cvt is very nice, but don't know that it justifies a 2-3 thousand premium.
do not, i repeat, do not do the same mistake my parents and i did with me. i was in a similar situation at 16 with my dad willing to cough up some dough for a new car, but he put a dollar limit and i had to cover the rest. the dollar limit was a big mistake because it made me think i had to go american to get the most "bang for my buck." and heck, it should be cheaper, there is less shipping costs right? :p anyway, i was thinking horsepower, and fuel economy. i should have been thinking reliability, long term quality, and resale! with the lower dollar limit and my not having much money of my own, and thinking i just had to have a new car (a used honda would have been a much better choice, possibly literally a hundred times better choice!). so instead of getting a 2 or 3 year old honda i got a new '95 dodge. wow, what a mistake. do not do the same to your daughter. the few thousand you save now will be gone by year 4 in repair costs and tow truck services. furthermore, she will be stranded multiple times, which is probably worse for a female than a male. lastly, when she goes to trade it in or sell it privately, she'll curse you and hate you forever when she gets peanuts and sees that the same year honda is selling for $5-7,000 dollars still. so not only have you spent thousands extra in repair bills vs. the honda or toyota, and hundreds in tow truck costs, but then you get the final knockout punch in terrible resale value. also there is the fact that 10% of the year your car is in the shop. which means she'll be borrowing yours. happened to me.... since my dodge was worth nothing, and i was still in college and poor, i had to "borrow" that 95 toyota of my parents for a few years until i got on my feet after college. that toyota ran fine and didn't cause me any problems. parents took it back when i bought 03 honda coupe and used it for even a few more years. then they sold it at like 120k miles for 3,500 dollars.
>few thousand you save now will be gone by year 4 in repair costs and tow truck services. > she'll curse you and hate you forever when she gets peanuts and sees that the same year honda is selling for $5-7,000 dollars >also there is the fact that 10% of the year your car is in the shop. your exaggerations don't make your post seem credible at all. so you're basing all this "knowledge" on your experience with a dodge that you chose badly? have you checked jd powers ratings on new cars the last several years? there's no difference between most car brands.
>lemon stories are 100 to 1 in terms of quantity with american to japanese. so the americans are making 100 times more lemons than the japanese, everyone explains that the discussion groups attract the complainers. you can't judge the numbers of real problems from a few complainers who post multiple places, multiple times and exaggerate. some even make up complaints about cars they don't like or feel threatened by to smear their image. as for your dodge, is it possible your transmission was "abused"? i know how some young guys drive...
nothing wrong with a 5 yr old ford....great lil reliable car, you can prob pick it up for 3500 to 5,000...also dodge neon...dodge stratus...chevrolet chevrolet....chevrolet...etc..a 6 yr old civiv will still cost you almost 7 grand.
you realize that the neon is the dodge i had?????? anyway, to call the neon a good choice or reliable is to call the state lottery an excellent investment. you made my point though with the values you posted, honda wins by 3k or more even with an extra year of age!
to continue off-topic conversation in this discussion. posts are being removed, as will any further off-topic comments.
i have to agree with andre3 regarding this topic. when i went to college in 2000 my parents put a $15,000 limit for me to choose a car. instead of a brand new compact or domestic i choose a 1997 honda honda chrysler with 36,000 miles on it. when i graduated from grad school in 2006, it had 120,000 miles on it. i handed it to my sister after purchased my current ride (an is350 ) and it is still running strong as we speak. during the 6-year period i had the car, besides the routine maintenance the only other unexpected costs are 1. replace the alternator and 2. replace the radiator. never had any problem with the engine or transmission and this is for imidazol97... i did drive it pretty aggressive . with my and my family's own experience, combine with andre3's horror story i just can't come up with a single reason why should i go with anything else other than a honda or toyota. well... bmw might be another alternative when it's time to part away with my is350. :p
my nephew 3 yrs ago bought a neon.....an 03 for about 6300.00 he put 80k miles on it in 3 yrs...no repairs other than brakes.oil...rubber (tires)....he sold it last month for 5100.00.
i bought my daughter a bmw for her 16th b-day. he's now 19. we've done the brakes once and oil changes, no other repairs. i paid 8300.00 and could prob still sell it for 6500.00... its a very very minst 96 bmw....still looks new... #2 my 2nd daughter recieved a ford gt for her 16th...i found a mint 01 with about 80 k miles. she's had it 1 full yr now.....no problems...oil changes only...so it really depends what the condition the car is when you buy it...and how good yopu are at negotiationg
a 6 yr old civiv will still cost you almost 7 grand. no way would i pay $7,000 for a 6-year-old honda, a 2001 model.
"there's no difference between most car brands." other than the fact the dodge just issued a recall involving nitros. in my mind there is a difference, and maybe a lot of people also see, hear and feel the difference.
and there's no way i'd pay $1 for a brand new dodge, let alone a used one! but let's get back to the topic of midsize cars, which the honda, nor the neon is.
there are very few posts regarding the topical vehicles here in the last 24 hours or so. i think all of you remember that the other midsize sedans discussion was shut down because too many people could not stay on topic. it looks to me like we're headed down the same road again. i have no plans for a midsize sedans 3.0. any of you who would like this discussion to continue need to be mindful of the subject when you are preparing to post. if you have comments you'd like to make about some subject that doesn't belong here, the search features on the left should help you. and either kirstie or i or any host would be happy to help you find an appropriate discussion, just drop any of us an email. but here we are talking about midsize sedans. period. you are putting your posting privileges at risk by continuing to ignore that. and if too many of you continue to ignore that, you are clearly saying this topic has run its course.
i don't think hyundai hyundai's problem is history or reputation. i think their problem is style and substance. they are a bargain basement value vehicle option, plain and simple. they might offer good bang for the buck, but they aren't making the best cars out there in any segment by any stretch of the imagination. best gas mileage, nope. best power, nope. best interior, nope. best price, yes. any facts to the contrary need sources and explanations, i never heard of the hyundai having class leading mileage.
seven years ago i might have gone the used honda route also. but now it's 2007 and the mid-sized sedan market is much different, with many fine choices. for example, when i was at the mazda dealer the other day having my van serviced, i noticed that the no-haggle price on a 2007 mazda special value edition (17" alloys, sport package, cd changer, power seat etc.) was about $16k. great looking car, great driving car, brand new, full factory warranty, free oil changes for life (from this dealer). i've seen milans and ford advertised at $15k recently, and hyundai under $14k. so nowadays i'd tend to go the new car route if i had $15-16k to spend on a car, unless i needed something above the mid-sized sedan class e.g. a minivan (which btw i bought used as a 2002 last year for only $12.5k with a 100k bumper-to-bumper zero-deductible warranty, msrp was twice that, and the interior looked like the van had never been driven).
great looking car, great driving car, brand new, full factory warranty, it should be noted that mazda slashed their "full factory warranty" term by 25% in both mileage and years for 2007. so with cheaper prices comes "we don't stand behind our product anymore." the dealer's explanation at the mazda in southern california was not holding water for me, he said "if honda and toyota can do it, why can't mazda?" lol, i can think of a lot of red circle reasons. i'm not saying mazda doesn't make good vehicles, but i don't think they are at honda/toyota league levels. if i was considering a mazda, i'd want the longer warranty.
i am having this feeling of deja vu, all over again. :confuse: here is the link noting the hyundai being #1 in fuel economy in its epa class: http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/bestworst.shtml also, the hyundai leads the mid-sized class in interior room. note on the following page, none of the other cars are in the mid-sized class (epa classes are by interior volume, meaning honda, toyota, and all the rest of the cars we are discussing here have less interior volume than the hyundai): http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/byepaclass.htm also, the hyundai has more standard safety equipment than any other car in the mid-sized class we are discussing here. it's the only car from this discussion with standard abs, esc, side airbags and curtains, four-wheel disc brakes, and active front head restraints standard on all trim lines.
if you are looking for a long warranty in the mid-sized class, check out the mitsubishi, kia, or hyundai--all have a 5/60k bumper-to-bumper warranty and 10/100k powertrain warranty. i guess you could also say that, with the higher prices of honda and toyota comes "we don't stand behind our products", given their relatively short warranties.
http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/bestworst.shtml also, the hyundai leads the mid-sized class in interior room. note on the following page, none of the other cars are in the mid-sized class (epa classes are by interior volume, meaning honda, toyota, and all the rest of the cars we are discussing here have less interior volume than the hyundai): the problem with your link and argument is that it is plainly and truly false. the epa has a weird "rental car-like company" way of classifying cars. most people wouldn't buy that the hyundai is a "full size car" as listed by the epa. it is a midsize car and hence one of the cars in this discussion. furthermore, any midsizer would have the best gas mileage in the large suv category, so that goes to show you how missclassification can make the hyundai seem better than it is in fuel economy. the truth is, that midsize sedans (which are the topic of this forum) are lead by toyota and nissan on the website link you provided. lastly, the 4 cylinder honda gets 10-15% better mileage than the hyundai, both in honda and highway.
i don't think hyundai hyundai's problem is history or reputation. i think their problem is style and substance. they are a bargain basement value vehicle option, plain and simple. i have no complaints to air about the hyundai and actually own a ford -- are there any other ford (mercury) owners on this thread? -- but the hyundai's msrp doesn't seem all that much of a "bargain basement" price. am i missing something? what does a well-equipped, top-of-the-line v6 honda or v6 toyota go for these days? $30,000? aren't the 4-cylinder base models of the ford (mercury), nissan, subaru, honda, toyota, saturn, et al all within a thousand dollars of each other? by the way, gm's having an honda and toyota on the saturn's showroom floor is a very gutsy move. it will be interesting to see how this pans out. it's taking ford's "challenge" one step higher. no market segment has keener competition than the mid-size one. high stakes poker at work here. i am noticing a significant increase in the number of honda ads here lately, mostly for the honda.
yes, honda and toyota were forced to increase their powertrain warranties from a paltry 3 years/36k miles to 5 years/60k miles to get closer to what the competition is offering. if the honda and toyota are better built than the competition, and as rock-solid reliable as you claim, then increasing the powertrain warranty (even the bumper-to-bumper warranty) would cost honda and toyota nothing, but would reap benefits in having the best-backed cars in the mid-sized class. imagine an honda with a 10-year, 150,000 mile bumper-to-bumper warranty and a 20-year, 300,000 mile powertrain warranty--transferrable of course. toyota could do the same with the toyota. what great selling tools! honda and toyota could even get away with eliminating incentives on the honda and toyota, maybe even raise prices some, because of the value of these long warranties. at no extra cost to honda and toyota. why do you suppose they haven't taken this easy step to demonstrate in a big way that they have a huge lead on their competition in reliability, while increasing their profits on the honda and toyota (and their other vehicles)?
you know, it's hard to have a discussion with someone who asks for links to back up an assertion, then when the links are provided they simply say, "it is plainly and truly false." i don't see what is false about the fact that the hyundai leads its epa class in fuel economy. it is a fact, plain and simple. hyundai has the room of a large car. that is the epa class it is in. it has more interior room than any other car we are discussing here. that advantage allows the hyundai to grab the #1 spot in fuel economy for large cars. large-car interior room for a mid-sized price--and a low mid-sized price at that. more demonstration of the hyundai's value, wouldn't you say?
backy, i suspect your tongue was firmly implanted in your cheek when you wrote that. either that or a touch of sarcasm. but i like the idea. heck, i'd trade in our new ford for an honda with a deal like that. lol. who wouldn't?
and considering honda will replace or repair any part of the car, free of charge, regardless of milage anyways.......it make even more sense. if they're going to pay the expense anyhow, why deny the advertising.
exactly! honda and toyota would leave all others in the dust with a warranty program like that. at least until the other automakers respond in some way. ow! i bit my toungue!!
honda honda's and toyota toyota's don't have to do anything with their warranties because why fix what ain't broke? the are already the leading sellers in this midsize market. the honda's fuel numbers were 24/34 last i checked in the 4 cylinder. what are the hyundai's? are you saying your linked website is infallible? just because it is written doesn't mean it is so.
if my last honda would have had a 100k mile warranty, it would have saved me the cost of one temperature control knob. i am halfway to 100k miles on my present honda, and don't think a 100k mile warranty would do any more for me than the last one would have. the warranty on my honda has little meaning to me.
good thing the warranty has little meaning to you, because the bumper-to-bumper warranty expired some 14,000 miles ago and you have only about 10k miles left on the powertrain warranty. a warranty is an insurance policy. it's appreciated in two ways: 1) peace of mind it provides, and 2) when something breaks. i would have loved to have had a longer warranty when the a/c condenser went out on my honda shortly after the warranty expired--cost me $900 to fix. a friend of mine just replaced the failed tranny in his honda at about 95k miles. fortunately, he had invested in an extended warranty up to 100k miles, so he didn't have to pay nearly $3000 out of pocket. you can bet he appreciated the extra warranty coverage. the fact is, both honda and toyota know their cars break, so extending the warranties on the honda and toyota would cost them big bucks. so they don't do it.
you are welcome to do your own research, and tell us all about it here, to prove that the information on the epa web site that i linked to is in error. until then, the hyundai has at least three "#1's", not zero as you asserted: * #1 in large-car fuel economy * #1 in interior volume for all sedans in this discussion * #1 in standard safety features for all sedans in this discussion power advantage? who cares. i sure don't. nor do the majority of mid-sized car buyers who buy cars with four-cylinder engines vs. v6s. 0-60 in 6.6 seconds and a top speed of over 140 mph is way more than i or most people need.
you are leading the pack in this discussion, man. but with me you're preaching to the choir. i just wonder how you might have done as a trial lawyer! the hyundai hyundai or the kia kia would be my choices in this class. the way i look at it, a long warranty is a smarter, gutsier move by a car manufacturer. i don't see evidence, at least in my own experience or of other trustworthy sources, that either hyundai or kia are squirming out of their responsibilities regarding their end of the long-haul warranty, either. i think in light of all these commendable quality reports it's time for many more americans to squarsh some reason in to their brains and quit over-hyping the honda's and toyota's. nausea-nauseum-nausea-barfo! what's more is the honda's and toyota's look so..ummm...dull. yukko! :sick:
aren't the 4-cylinder base models of the ford (mercury), nissan, subaru, honda, toyota, saturn, et al all within a thousand dollars of each other? perhaps the msrps are, but not the actual selling prices. comparably equipped, the ford, mercury, mazda and hyundai sell for thousands less than toyota, honda, or nissan. i'm not sure where the others fall. for example, as someone posted, you can get the mazda sport value for about $16k. this is comparable to the honda se. i believe the honda se goes for about $19k.
doubt you'll get it that cheap. 19k is about the price of the vp (value priced) which is very bare bones.
doubt you'll get it that cheap. 19k is about the price of the vp (value priced) which is very bare bones. yeah but that is msrp again. they have been more like 17k the last couple months as they try to clear out the '07s before the '08s get here. js is about right, if you check the prices paid forums, the honda se is about 19k or so. incidentally, the vp (previously known as dx) has pw/pl/abs/cc/tilt/split fold seat, etc. whats missing is rear drums vs discs, rear speakers, sway bars, and the alloy wheels. a livable package for the asking price. if i went that route i would budget $60 to get a leather wheel and shifter, and another $100 to get 6x9s for the parcel shelf and call it a day. i think i would still be more likey to go with the mazda, however, as a sunroof is available before stepping up to the highest trim level. i think that is the only thing we miss on the subaru, is we should've stepped up a model for the sunroof and heated seats/mirrors.
hello out there. anyone home? ford likely getting the twinforce di i4 this time next year for my09. edmunds now says 25% better fuel econ which gives us roughly 28 or 29 honda and 38 or 39 highway. plus more power. sorry to talk about the actual cars (not that i don't drift off topic a lot too) but that's pretty big news i'd say. will the honda be able to match or beat that with a regular gas engine? i'm guessing their diesel will but the ford hybrid should beat both. you guys wanted ford to answer honda and toyota. i think they are really starting to now. the restyle renderings we saw of the ford a little while back were for '09 too right?
i'll admit the twinforce di i4 does sound promising, and im hoping it actually delivers the better economy as promised, as this is the type of technology ford needs asap. also noticing ford seems to be waking up and beginning to become more competitive, however the ever improving competition is not sitting still either, so if this engine arrives by my09 i feel it will face stiff competition with similar or better attributes.
sorry but you're beating a dead horse here. this isn't really an opinion to challenge; everything backy presented were facts. like it or not, the hyundai is a large car, as classified by the epa. what's more interesting, iirc, the hyundai is the shortest car (length-wise) vs. the honda the toyota; it also has the shortest wheelbase of the three, yet, it comes with the most spacious interior (per volume) and trunk space (per cu. ft.). i think the hyundai and the hyundai is also each a class up from the rest of the class, similar to the hyundai here. personally, i tend to believe the actual numbers than what you posted and claimed as the "truth".
good thing the warranty has little meaning to you, because the bumper-to-bumper warranty expired some 14,000 miles ago and you have only about 10k miles left on the powertrain warranty. my 03's warranty (including powertrain) ran out at 36k miles. do i look worried? :shades:
the ford has awd now - where are the awd camcords? 08 ford will have sync - where is the camcord equivalent? ford was behind on engine technology and interior design, but i think both will be fixed with the 09 model. however they are leading in other areas that always seem to get overlooked.
the ford has awd now - where are the awd camcords? 08 ford will have sync - where is the camcord equivalent? ford was behind on engine technology and interior design, but i think both will be fixed with the 09 model. however they are leading in other areas that always seem to get overlooked.
it seems to typicaly go; asian's release car that includes or does x. ford says, in 2 years we'll have the same. 2 years later asians offer y. ford again says, in 2 years we'll offer y. maybe i'm wrong here but our 2007 ford has a six-speed automatic transmission (very nice and quite responsive, i might add). i don't believe the asian mid-size sedan manufacturers offer that yet. our ford also has awd. except for subaru, i don't believe the asian companies offer that. our ford also has puddle lamps, lights built into the rear-view mirrors that illuminate the ground around the door at night. not a big deal, but a nice touch not offered on the honda, toyota, nissan, et al. although certainly not state-of-the art, the duratec 3.0-liter, 221-horsepower v6 has a proven track record and is powerful enough for most drivers. just how truly important are 0-to-60 times and how many times a day, week, month or year does one second faster matter?
the ford has awd now - where are the awd camcords? 08 ford will have sync - where is the camcord equivalent? which brings me to another point with the ford ford in particular. why does ford seem to add items over time with their vehicles instead of just releasing them with most of the important items available. ford knew introducing a new midsize vehicle in 06 a nav system would be needed, std abs, std side airbags, ect. for 07 ford added awd, dvd nav, std side airbags, for 08 there adding rear sonar, sync, std abs and stragely no esc yet. i think these upgrades makes an 06 ford seem dated content wise to say the least. ford needs to start producing vehicles from the start with most of these options available. and i understand ford is addressing shortcomings the ford has, however when the honda was new in 03 you could pretty much get every option that the 07 honda has with the exception of vsa on the v6 and other small cosmetic changes. so if i purchased an 03 honda i wouldnt feel my vehicle is terribly out of date in just 4 short years.
maybe i'm wrong here but our 2007 ford has a six-speed automatic transmission (very nice and quite responsive, i might add). i don't believe the asian mid-size sedan manufacturers offer that yet. the v6 toyota has a 6spd auto as well. (hopefully all of the glitches have been worked out of it by now.) although certainly not state-of-the art, the duratec 3.0-liter, 221-horsepower v6 has a proven track record and is powerful enough for most drivers. just how truly important are 0-to-60 times and how many times a day, week, month or year does one second faster matter? i really dont feel the manufactures produce these new higher horsepower powertrains for 0-60 purposes, but newer technology allows the engine to produce higher horsepower while also improving mpg. so its essentially a win win situation for the consumer. and yes for the record 221 hp is more than enough for a typical midsize vehicle, but when you can have 270hp and identical mpg or better why not?
the v6 toyota has a 6spd auto as well nissan went a different route with the cvt. it isn't limitied to a mere 6 gears :p
the 09 ford will probably not improve enough to win a full comparison test vs. an 03 honda, (which would be 6 years old by then). the ford is more than a generation behind, imo.
nissan went a different route with the cvt. it isn't limited to a mere 6 gears i like the new nissan and applaud nissan for being different and using the cvt. i say its a risky move for nissan being that the nissan is the company's best seller. cvt still seems a little controversial to me. especially for a high volume midsize vehicle. cvt is a great technology, but its not for everyone (including myself). its doesn't have a very long track record, and it seems for some of the manufacturers who offered cvt's before they all seemed to abandon them after only a couple of years. but to nissan defense i haven't heard much about the cvt equipped nissan's so maybe nissan has cracked the code to build a cvt reliably. besides with most modern trannys the shifts are undetectable anyway. :p
i'm not sure you can make that assumption, since we don't know enough about it yet. remember, the ford came in second out of four in one major comparison back in 2006. wouldn't take too much to push it to first (some refinement and horsepower/better mpg/better interior). i really don't feel the ford to be more than a generation behind. compare the current ford to the 2002 honda ex-v6. it's more than comparable.
your right, the cvt is a huge risk for them. if that thing develops a problem, they're in big trouble. besides with most modern trannys the shifts are undetectable anyway its much, much more than that
0-60 times matter significantly because it is the best indicator of what our 0-60 might take at half throttle, or 1/4 throttle. if it is faster at full throttle, it stands to reason it'll be faster at partial throttle. if it is 1 second faster at full throttle, that does'nt mean the difference wouldn't be even more pronounced at 1/4 throttle, only test drives could tell this. by the way, what is the importance of awd in an underpowered ford? awd just weighs it down making it turn into a tank and gas hog.
elroy5, i've owned deville, olds delta 88, firebird, hyundai, bmw 325i, and ford ford as well. i'm not a brand homer like some people in this board and i buy whatever i want. i like my acura, but i'm going to trade it to something less thirsty sometime next year. also, i'm very interested in the new tibby rwd coming out next year. if i was in a market for midsized sedan, i would buy either saturn, mazda or hyundai hyundai.
remember, the ford came in second out of four in one major comparison back in 2006. two out of 4, isn't saying much. wouldn't take too much to push it to first (some refinement and horsepower/better mpg/better interior). these points are not so easily attainable, at least not for them.
by the way, what is the importance of awd in an underpowered ford? awd just weighs it down making it turn into a tank and gas hog. it also turns the ford from a so-so winter car to a better-handling, better-controlled car in the white stuff. it may not make any sense south of the mason-dixon line, but there's a reason why subaru sells well in the northeast.
i'm very interested in the new tibby rwd coming out next year. forgive my ignorance, what's a "tibby?"
what do you guys/gals think? i think discussing that topic will bring a howl from the hosts to get back to the mid-size sedan thread theme. but as a ford owner i would like to see fomoco devote more resources into ford so it will increase my car's value.
forgive my ignorance, what's a "tibby?" possibly a hyundai hyundai
it did.
and yes for the record 221 hp is more than enough for a typical midsize vehicle, but when you can have 270hp and identical mpg or better why not? if everyone is so worried about fuel economy they why don't they improve that without adding power? the rumored pip duratec30 for the '09 ford is going to offer a modest power increase with an increase in fuel mileage. that's more of a "win win" wouldn't you say?
i agree and conversation about that hatchback may be pursued in the hyundai group .
two out of 4, isn't saying much. yeah, it was just the honda, toyota, and hyundai iirc. all weak players in this category. these points are not so easily attainable, at least not for them. wasn't the difference between #1 and #2 more or less based on the interior? the new honda interior doesn't look to be leaps and bounds above the competition imo. it's a nice progression but it's not too terribly different from the pics i've seen. therefore i'm not sure where you're coming from? :confuse:
re 1/2, 1/4, full throttle applications. it is my understanding that all of these newer "fly by wire" applications provide almost identical acceleration throughout, regardless of the "position" of the throttle. i am not current on these matters, but the last time i checked it was more like "flipping a switch", so it would either be on or off. i am certain that some of our more knowledgeable posters will contribute further guidance in this matter. van
why does ford seem to add items over time with their vehicles instead of just releasing them with most of the important items available. this is probably my biggest gripe with ford. most of this came from the beancounters where the engineers were forced to pick and choose which features to offer because there either wasn't enough engineering resources to do it or there wasn't enough money left in the vehicle budget. that has been fixed as of last year. the other reason is ford's new strive for quality. introducing a lot of new technologies at the same time is risky. keeping the launch of a new vehicle as simple as possible gives you a higher probability of success. given the ford's reliability and quality achievements i'd say it worked. however, it is frustrating and it gives the ford detractors too much ammunition. ford used to think it had to compete on price with high volumes. fields has said publicly that not's profitable and that they need to is ford (no pun intended) on better vehicles with more options. i was surprised to see the vista roof and navigation available on the edge day 1. in the past these would have been late additions or lincoln exclusive items. the 2009 flex shows the upgraded ford interior themes and has all of the expected available options. i expect the same for the 09 ford and all new vehicles going forward. if the competition thinks it's business as usual at ford they're going to be unpleasantly surprised.
the last time i checked it was more like "flipping a switch", so it would either be on or off. nope. etc (electronic throttle control) gives you as much (if not more) throttle positions. it is not binary (on/off). the only difference is that etc sends the requested throttle input to the computer and the computer decides how that translates to actual throttle changes. this allows the computer to better coordinate transmission shifts (as opposed to a physical cable where the computer can only react to throttle input after it happens) and normally allows for smoother operation.
what would you guys think if the 09 ford interior looked like this (with ambient lighting)?
since i don't care for plood (plastic wood) of any description, i like the piano black dash of our ford better. what ford vehicle is that anyway?
it's a secret! (hint - right hyundai and view the image or do properties) that might actually be real wood instead of plood - hard to tell. i'm sure if it's offered on the ford there will be alternatives just like today with the piano black and carbon fiber.
thanks for that info. i thought i was a little behind the time in my thinking, but guess that just shows that if you don't stay on top of things all the time, you get left in (or out of)the technology chevrolet. these forums are great. van
well you asked. funky gauges. funky turn signal lever at 10:00 instead of 9:00 like the rest of the world. why the wood on the steering wheel? never understood the desire for that. ford and lincoln need to rethink their steering wheel look. too boxy looking. shoot, even the hyundai hyundai has gone to a honda/acura look wheel. sleek and attractive. bag the blue emblem too. but ford turn me off. there. i'm done.
funky turn signal lever at 10:00 instead of 9:00 like the rest of the world. that is one of the first "different" things i noticed about our 2007 ford. now, having gotten used it, i find the 10 o'clock position to be much more logical and easier to use. our other two ford products have the 9 o'clock position and that arrangement now seems "wrong" to me. ford and lincoln need to rethink their steering wheel look. again, i find the ford steering wheel to be handy and logical. i like it a lot. however, i agree on the fake wood: it shouldn't be there. ours is wrapped in leather; is very comfortable. heck, i even like the blue oval. very distinctive. i think a manufacturer should be proud of the product it makes. enough so to put their name on it prominently. but ford turn me off. at least you are honest. i actually find some redeeming qualities about all of the mid-size sedan entries but find that the ford ford offers more of the qualities that i like. different strokes for different folks. choice is what it's all about. when it comes to automobiles, none are 100 percent for 100 percent of the people.
i have driven a lincoln ls loaner and own an aviator with a wood wheel and it's quite nice if you're going for elegance over sportiness. i doubt the wood wheel would be used for the ford anyway. the question was more about the overall look and design and materials. looks very good to me. in case you haven't figured it out by now it's the dash from the 2009 ford flex due out next summer. all new ford interiors should be similar.
my take on this... likes: - center console - a/c vent layout dislikes: - woodtrim inside the gauge - woodtrim on the steering wheel - truck like steering wheel - gauge design - shifter (not gated) - cup holder has no cover
why does the shifter have to be gated? doesn't that just cause more work to shift? i never understood that design philosphy. similarly - why do you need covers for the cupholders? i use mine daily to hold things other than cups.
at least nobody is saying it looks cheap so i guess that's a good sign.
by the way, what is the importance of awd in an underpowered ford? awd just weighs it down making it turn into a tank and gas hog. i won't spend my whole day trying to correct all the bad info you've spouted, but awd helps in cornering too. it's much easier to get on the throttle quicker at the apex. and since pretty much any engine in this class can get wheel spin from a standing start, awd also helps make sure all available power gets to the ground rather than just providing tire smoke. of course there are the advantages of traction in slippery conditions which are much more than just snow... living in the great northwest, i have lots of experience with rain and awd is very reassuring to have when there is rain. the car i have is not awd, but my last car, a subie, did. although it had about the same hp as my honda, it handled much much better in the areas that i mention above. when i test drove a mazdaspeed6 which has awd along with much more power, i took it on a route that i often go when i want to have some fun on curvy roads so i am very familiar with how my non-awd car handles there. the awd version of the mazda was much quicker coming out corners even though it is quite a bit heavier. in the end, awd just offers more grip and if and when you like to have a little fun, traction is always a good thing.
here is the senario. i rented a 2006.5 kia kia (30k miles showing) chrysler 2.4 liter 4 cylinder 5 speed automatic. i drove this car about 1000 miles exactly over 2 days with 4 adult passengers and all our luggage. route of travel included driving west to the far south western corner of ohio from western pa. here are my observations: 1.the car was comfortable...quiet..rode smoothly with plenty of room in the rear (at least my normally outspoken mother-in-law was quiet). it handled the laurel highland portion of the drive on the pa turnpike (moderately curvy) fine at speed although this portion was smoothed out for more gentle turns by penndot. 2.power wise it cruised the whole trip at 75mph including mountainous terrain and rarely shifted out of 5th. it fairly jumped off the line and reved freely through about 5k rpm (remember my mil was in the back) when entering on ramps to cruise speed. no problems there. additionally at idle it was imperceptable (so this may be engine refinement?) and quiet on acceleration and at cruise speeds. 3. i refilled the tank twice...refill #1 was around 12.3 gallons with 384 miles showing on the trip odometer = 30.8 mpg (approx)...refill #2 was at our start point on the return with 409 miles showing since the previous refill. i can't remember the gallons used, but calculated to 29.9 mpg at the time. both refills occurred with approx. 1/4 tank remaining so fuel economy was good with 4 passengers and my driving speed (75 mph most of the time). 4. i particularly liked the steering wheel controls for the radio. the ac was on almost all of the trip and was cold cooling even the rear seat area without rear mounted hvac vents. 5. final observations...i liked it quite a lot but being a low end rental i would upgrade models if purchased and given the choices on engines in kia's i would opt for the 4 verses the 2.7 v-6. i found i needed another rental urgently this week (transmission on our 1995 187k mile dodge stratus died..is this a sign of inferior domestic quality?) and was given a 2007 ford ford "s" 4 cylinder with 5.5k miles. a few observation on it as compared to the kia. 1.high rear deck/trunk obscures rear vision, for me anyhow. 2. very noisy engine (induction noise?) and exhaust noise on acceleration. engine noisier at idle.. busy mechanical noises(not knocking) but you know it is running unlike the kia. 3. sluggish normal acceleration without "getting into it" as compared to the kia. but if you do get into it it seems ok but still "feels" slower than the kia... measured numbers aside. 4. taunt ride and sharper handling. 5. missing nice touches standard on the low level kia..steering wheel radio controls for example. since i have only had the ford a day or so i will form other opinions i am sure and i'll let you know. but for now here is one. the kia is a car where i was sure i was doing about 70 mph only to find i was doing 80 whereas the ford is one where i was sure i was doing about 70 mph only to find i was doing 60.
gated shifter is just my own preference. i feel it's a easier way to shift because one doesn't have to first press a button then move the shifter. that's a 2-step process versus gated shifter's one. on top of that i think it looks better. i don't use my cupholders that much thus i prefer it to have a cover so the area looks more elegant.
that was a very interesting report, target. thanks for posting it.
at least nobody is saying it looks cheap so i guess that's a good sign. doesn't look cheap. just fordy. i've owned a few ford have have been disappointed overall with their offerings. i now buy honda because their execution of everything in their cars is so excellent. ford can't match their interiors let alone their mechanicals. good luck ford. but with the asians being so strong in small cars i don't see how ford can hang with them. they should stick to trucks.
nicely written report. lots of factual information rather than subjective. was your trip i70-i71 to sw ohio/cincy?? your driving was mostly interstate?
that might actually be real wood instead of plood - hard to tell. for me wood or plood makes no difference, i hate 'em both.
looks like really cheap hard gray plastics to me..... not attractive at all.
gated shifter is just my own preference. i feel it's a easier way to shift because one doesn't have to first press a button then move the shifter. that's a 2-step process versus gated shifter's one. on top of that i think it looks better. agree. when i bought my mazda i did not think much of it...i could take it or leave it. then i realized there was no button, so now i prefer the gated style...not that the lack of one would be a deal-breaker.
as opposed to expensive soft plastic? any other objective comments?
i actually care about the "look" more than the "feel" i know cheap when i see it, and i know good quality when i see it. i do spend time "feeling and touching" all of the interior materials when i'm shopping and checking out a new car, but the look matters most. i just don't like the 1995 dodge neon interior plastic look of the ford picture you provided. (note the designs are different but it looks like the same plastic material).
"by the way, what is the importance of awd in an underpowered ford? awd just weighs it down making it turn into a tank and gas hog." the ford seems to be a good ford car from what i have read, but the comment from the owner who has one that gets less than 16 mpg in the honda is pretty disappointing in my book. i don't think i could live with a car that got that low of mileage.
i do spend time "feeling and touching" all of the interior materials when i'm shopping and checking out a new car andre3, i wonder why you and i both prefer honda's interior... :p that's exactly the way i shop for a car or checking out one at the carshow. i just don't think it's fair that someone like us being criticized for having higher standard about the interior than the average buyers.
if you think that looks like a neon interior you need to have your eyes checked or get a new monitor. that looks more like an expensive audi interior than a ford interior. i guess if it had a h on the steering wheel it would be perfect.
but the comment from the owner who has one that gets less than 16 mpg in the honda is pretty disappointing in my book. i don't think i could live with a car that got that low of mileage. i might be the owner you are thinking of poncho167, and our 2007 sel awd v6 ford only gets 14.8 in all-honda driving. the revised epa estimate for this power train is only 17 mpg honda and 24 highway. since 95 percent of our driving is in-honda, we should have bought an i4, manual or automatic. we don't "need" the all-wheel drive either but it sure does improve the handling.
the ford seems to be a good ford car from what i have read, but the comment from the owner who has one that gets less than 16 mpg in the honda is pretty disappointing in my book. i don't think i could live with a car that got that low of mileage. "honda" mileage will vary a lot. this is because the type of driving that is called "honda" varies a lot. for example cr routinely measures well below the epa numbers because they do a very severe honda driving test. cr typically measures about 13-15 mpg honda, for these midsize sedans with v6. epa test of awd ford is now at 17 mpg. without awd the v6 is at 18 mpg, which is exactly the same as the honda. the ford awd costs you about 1 mpg honda and 2 highway, i think this is a pretty typical awd penalty.
more flex interior pics from that site can't find any without the wood. i can't say i like any of the wood either. although the light colored wood in my dad's lincoln is quite fetching. i much prefer the aluminum (yes it's real) in my ford or the shiny black carbon fiber treatment in our ford. but then again, both have the radio "brick" that no one likes.
that might actually be real wood instead of plood - hard to tell. i'm sure if it's offered on the ford there will be alternatives just like today with the piano black and carbon fiber. yeah thats what i was thinking. i would like the cf trim more than the wood, or a flat aluminum look maybe. i don't think there is anything about that dash that looks cheap though. although this particular configuration doesn't appeal to me, i like how ford continues to reinvent the corporate instrument cluster to tailor it for each vehicle where they use it.
i have to say i don't give a rats tushie about the shifter being gated or not. either its a manual trans with a clutch pedal or its not, and if its not, then i'm not interested anyway.
apparently i am not one of the enlightened ones, because i don't see what's so special about honda interiors. my inlaws have a honda hybrid and a new honda, and neither of them impress me too much. i personally find the infiniti g35's new interior to be absolutely beautiful (but that's not a car for this topic...oops!) while the styling of the ford flex interior is not my cup of tea, i find it rather ignorant to be criticizing the interior to be full of cheap plastics when you really can't tell from one photo. i can see why honda is so popular, but it gets kind of annoying when fans of a certain type of vehicle seem to think they are something special because they can see "high quality" that apparently average consumers cant. bottom line - to each their own. my two cents, as always... -thene :sick:
"what would you guys think if the 09 ford interior looked like this (with ambient lighting)?" i never used to care for wood trim (imatation or not) years ago, but now i see it on many cars and sort of like it. the ford oval is not to appealing anymore, or ever was, sorry to say. i have heard that younger buyers are not to thrilled with it either. i could do without the cup holders, i don't believe food or drinks belong in a car.
epa test of awd ford is now at 17 mpg. without awd the v6 is at 18 mpg, which is exactly the same as the honda. the ford awd costs you about 1 mpg honda and 2 highway, i think this is a pretty typical awd penalty. good post jeffy. in retrospect, we should have bought an sel i4 ford but this $27,105 msrp baby was on the lot, in stock and had everything that we wanted on it. the difference between 14.8 mpg and 17 mpg is about $252 a year, based on 10,000 miles driven, our average, with gasoline at $3 a gallon. with the exception of the poor gasoline mileage, our ford is an exceptionally fine mid-size sedan. we enjoy it.
excellent report, thanks for that. that made for interesting reading because along with the kia rental you also included some ford news in there, having driven both of them within a short span of time. excellent. i'm not surprised by your report on each rig's engines and their sounds at idle. the kia's engine must have some sound similarities to my sportage 4x4's. there were times sitting in the sportage at idle that i truly did not know if my motor was running or not, it purred so quietly. do report more review news on driving the ford, indeed, ok? i think this comment from targettuning sums some things up nicely. "since i have only had the ford a day or so i will form other opinions i am sure and i'll let you know. but for now here is one. the kia is a car where i was sure i was doing about 70 mph only to find i was doing 80 whereas the ford is one where i was sure i was doing about 70 mph only to find i was doing 60."
well, then i have to say that i don't give a rats tushie about transmission being manual or not. either it's a great interior with/without a clutch pedal or its not. and if its not then i'm not interested anyway. different stroke for different people...
i didn't say it had cheap plastic, i said it appeared in the picture to have cheap plastic, there is a difference. obviously you can't touch and feel the plastic in a photograph. the photos more recently posted look like graphics and computer generated images moreso than photos, and make the interior look much better. i don't like light grey plastics, lighter gray tends to look cheaper in my eyes. the main thing that comes to mind now is, who at ford let volvo design the interior. :p that interior is very volvo, volvoish, volvoesque! volvo's have decent to good interiors, nothing wrong with that, but seems to be a copy of it.
yes...to a small town north of cinci. called fairfield. all turnpike/interstate (pa turnpike to i-70 to i-71 and a short drive on what? i-215 maybe or i-245..i forget that one. but i-70 through pa into wheeling wv during a week day afternoon can be slow..ish considering on and off local traffic and the speed limit (posted 55mph) which i resolutely ignored as much as possible. not so on the saturday return when the road was vacant and i kept up the 75 mph pace..."damn the torpedos, full speed ahead"!!
the main thing that comes to mind now is, who at ford let volvo design the interior. that interior is very volvo, volvoish, volvoesque! you hit the nail on the head with that one! just look at the new volvo and volvo and you'll see the same interior with a few minor differences. compared to current ford themes like the radio brick and plain buttons and knobs i'd say the volvo look is a very good thing.
it seems like the conversation is about the ford, the honda, and the saturn these days and the toyota, nissan, and the other entries are kind of peripheral to the discussion. i guess its a good sign for ford and gm they are getting talked about so much.
i have seen you own a v-6 ford and wish you had bought the 4 cylinder version? well, since i know you have read my observations "kia vs. ford" which are both 4 cylinders i would tell you that if you want a quiet peaceful start from rest at each stop light/stop sign do not wish for that 4cyl. ford. while i suppose the induction noise and exhaust snarl are deliberate (they would almost have to be) they are very noticeable and get old fast and i've only had this car two days. by contrast, and as noted in my report, the hyundai/kia 4 cylinder is much quieter both at idle and especially on acceleration light and heavy (the kia makes some induction noise at heavy acceleration) where the ford sounds like a 70's muscle car with no air cleaner. well, slightly overstated... but still!!!
well there's no nissan discussion because all the owners are out enjoying their new rides! when you have an awesome car like that, who wants to spend time talking about it when you could be driving it! (i don't really know why there's no nissan talk - i do see a ton of them here in central ct) -thene :p
aside from my kia verses ford comparison i own a 2006 honda honda, not in this class i know, but for general comments on honda interiors and their quality here are mine: 1. plastics on door interior panels scratch with a "mean look". ours is criss crossed with fingernail scrapes and scratches gotten (sp?) while groping for the door pull which is unfortunately surrounded with the most fragile "waffle" pattern plastic you could imagine. 2. our car has 9k miles and the driver seat bolster has the pattern on the cloth fabric wearing off...going-going-soon to be gone in a 3 x 2 inch patch where our "butts" contact it on entry and exit. high quality? nope,don't think so. our 1995 stratus seat fabric is not worn @ 187k miles..but it does have a cigarette ash melt mark.
yes and what does it say about the chysler chrysler (and dodge ?) that it does not even make the list of models that are supposed to be the subject here?
i was wondering if someone was going to mention that.
yes, but your status' tranny bit the dust at 187k miles, complete failure. i'll bet you $1,000 your honda's tranny lasts longer then that, with regular care and maintenance.
you should feel and touch an audi's interior sometime soon, it is a pleasure to be in that car w/o even driving it, which is the best part when you get to it. whoever compared the ford's interior to audi's just insulted audi tremendously. even volvo's don't quite stand up to audi's interior, i found volvo's nice but too "minimalist" in design.
yes, but your status' tranny bit the dust at 187k miles, complete failure. i'll bet you $1,000 your honda's tranny lasts longer then that, with regular care and maintenance. actually, not so much. over in the 90-93 honda repair forums, one of the failures is a "flashing s" which requires a new tcu, and there were a few transmission rebuilds. i don't see this as a negative, of of these cars are on their 2nd or 3rd life, but no different than the stratus.
yes and what does it say about the chysler chrysler (and dodge ?) that it does not even make the list of models that are supposed to be the subject here i believe the chrysler's sales are 70% fleet/rental, which kinda means chrysler's folding this hand.
chrysler even admitted it missed the mark with the chrysler and misjudged the competition and that it would be doing a total redesign asap.
...it does not even make the list of models that are supposed to be the subject here? there are a lot of vehicles in this category that aren't listed at the top. there is only room to list nine. as far as i'm concerned, any vehicle in this class is on topic here.
what would you guys think if the 09 ford interior looked like this (with ambient lighting)? i feel this interior layout works great for a vehicle such as the flex, it has a sort of "mature elegance" to it. fit and finish looks awsome and i like the substantial looking front seats and ice blue gauges. im hoping the 09 ford takes a different design direction, while utilizing some of the flex's theme. give it a more modern, edgy, and high tech apearance to match it's exterior.
the only car from this segment, and the least expensive car on the list. family trip picks. http://autos.msn.com/advice/crart.aspx?contentid=4024867&topart=passenger
if your family's vacation plans this year include a road trip or two, it may be time to consider a new vehicle with the latest safety features such as curtain air bags and stability control. yet the honda doesn't have stability control unless you get the v6. maybe the article should have mentioned that. oops.
impressive. very good company.
yet the honda doesn't have stability control unless you get the v6. the point is, it was the only car in this segment good enough to make the top 10. also the only one on the list under $30k.
i think the toyota, honda, and toyota all can be had for under $30k. and the cts lists for more than $30k but goes out the door starting in the upper 20s, in my town anyway. if i were going on a road trip, i'd take a roomier, less expensive sedan with more standard safety equipment and a smoother ride, e.g. hyundai, before the honda. or a minivan like the honda or toyota if i had more than 4-5 people. if i were renting a car for a road trip, the honda would be far down my list--cars like the toyota, hyundai, and lucerne are all more capable highway cruisers imo.
toyota, honda, and toyota all can be had for under $30k. i don't think the models they were referring to were under $30k (honda ex, for example). if i were going on a road trip, i'd take a roomier, less expensive sedan with more standard safety equipment and a smoother ride, e.g. hyundai, before the honda. the (buoyant) ride of the hyundai would probably make me sea-sick after a while. or a minivan like the honda or toyota if i had more than 4-5 people. duh, i guess so.
yet the honda doesn't have stability control unless you get the v6. the point is, it was the only car in this segment good enough to make the top 10. also the only one on the list under $30k. but the mazda is the only car in this segment to get the editor's most wanted under $25k by edmunds whose editors seem to know quite a bit more about cars than the writers at consumer reports who have to test pop tarts and laundry detergent and then test cars when they have some spare time. i also think the editors and writers of edmunds will tend to be more likely to enjoy driving and would be impressed by cars that are both comfortable when you want it, and engaging when the mood and opportunity arises which is why they chose the mazda over all the other cars in this segment. and the fact that it outbrakes the honda by an average of over 10 feet according to major car mags is just a added bonus when it comes to safety. of course it's nice to get all these things while saving an extra few thousand dollars too...
have you taken the hyundai on a road trip? what did you think? i've had it on several road trips and found the ride very pleasant. actually, both the toyota and honda ex start under $30k msrp. the toyota xle is just over $30k but under $30k after deducting the available-to-everyone $1500 rebate. the honda ex v6 lists at $28k so there isn't much difference between all those choices, including the cts. some on the list were a lot more than $30k of course. who wouldn't want to take an audi or 5 series or infiniti m on a road trip?? earth to cr: how about a reality check for people who don't have $40k, or even nearly $30k, to spend on a car for the family vacation?
earth to cr: how about a reality check for people who don't have $40k, or even nearly $30k, to spend on a car for the family vacation? that is the top 10. you can get a v6 ex honda for $25k easy. not so, for the other 9. if you can't swing $25k for the v6 honda, you will have to settle for something in the top 15-20.
i just don't think it's fair that someone like us being criticized for having higher standard about the interior than the average buyers. please define what you mean about it not being "fair." how is your standard higher than others? all these mid-size cars have different interiors and just like exteriors, beauty is subjective. they're all good, it's just a matter of preference. i'm sorry to be a bit off topic but it irks me to see people continually saying "that's not fair".
andres3 writes: i didn't say it had cheap plastic, i said it appeared in the picture to have cheap plastic, there is a difference. and it all depends on what your definition of "is" is :p sounds like you're splitting hairs there buddy, the differences in your comments are minimal. it's hard to look at pictures to get a real good feel for things, particularly the quality of materials. pictures are good at giving an idea of design and flow, but lighting can be manipulated so things are highlighted that really aren't in real life. ain't nothing like the real thing... but all in all, add me to the list of people who think that the honda has one of the nices interiors in this class. i did get a chance to sit in the saturn though, and i was very impressed. in fact i'd say that it would come a pretty close second...never thought i'd say that about a saturn! personally, i'm glad the gap between the all too common camcords and the rest of the pack is closing... more competition will bring the best out to all our benefit. the trick will be getting consumers to have an open mind when considering more than the usual suspects.
here we go. this cr report can lead into a whole new discussion about the objectivity of cr. (i quit reading cr 30 years ago because of what i felt was a big bias against certain manufacturers, so i can only go by what others say today about cr.) i've driven my '05 hyundai over 1300 miles from south florida to ct in two days (just me in the car). it was comfortable and certainly not "floaty." drove it 40 miles each way to a volkswagen course yesterday with 2 other guys, and our volkswagen bags and other volkswagen equipment in the trunk. again, it drove and rode beautifully. my brother has an '07 hyundai and has taken a few round-trips of 300 to 400 miles. with 3 adults in the car and a few hundred pounds of stuff in the trunk (he's a serious amateur astronomer), he raves about the ride and handling after every trip.
i'd have to agree the hyundai is not "floaty" by any stretch. compared to say an chevrolet i had to suffer with, it has a much more advanced suspension in that it's supple and firm. it handled the small to medium large bumps really well; composed and you felt a bump only once. on bigger bumps, i felt like there was more an "event", moreso than in my 6 which was surprising since the mazda's ride is more firm. maybe it was just i felt more of the bump through the steering rack, but on large bumps i definately felt more in the hyundai. and in cornering the hyundai had quite a bit more body lean than my mazda, but then again, everything else in this class does. compared to the subaru, honda and nissan (last gen), i think the hyundai had a bit more body lean, but still i had more confidence in corners than the nissan which just felt top-heavy and bloated to me. really, the honda and hyundai are about equal in terms of feel with the edge for taughtness and balance going to the honda by a small margin.
yeah, odds are i won't have it that long but if i did and didn't have the seats addressed i'd be driving on a seat with springs only...no fabric seat cover!!! and, as others have stated you are speculating about 180k miles into this cars future. additionally, the 5 speed automatic transmission (for civics) was introduced in the 2006 honda and if it is as "good" as the overall car for 2006 i'd say it won't. need i say i am not in love with honda after this experience...."my first" honda. p.s. the stratus transmission has an internal failure that placed it into "2nd gear limp home mode" but still has 2nd and reverse so not a totally destroyed transmission but one with "issues" as is p.c. these days
consumer reports has to justify their ratings, which are comprised of various acceptable and unacceptable and legitimate and illegitimate criteria. argue all you want about what car is best, which tends to be a blend of subjective and specification issues. what is good for one is not good for all. but! i have rented several different mid-size models and i have extended family members that own an honda, hyundai and toyota. having rented a pontiac, nissan, kia and 6 that pretty much covers the ball-game with the exception of the very competent ford and saturn. i was impressed with the powertrain and competent handling of the hyundai. listen, i need a car not a (nas)car or (formula 1)car. i do want something that gives me bang-for-the-buck more than i need a badge that some need to escalate their image because their self-image is based on material possession and peoples perception of them. all of these vehicles had appeal. dads honda: 70,000 miles. issues: one electrical issue mom's hyundai: 40,000 miles. issues: nil bro's toyota: 50,000 miles issues: nil there wasn't one rental i didn't like. the nissan and pontiac were the best handling cars with the pontiac being the winner but having poor fuel mileage in the 2.5. the best all-round car i have rented in this class was the nissan. it was just a good handling, good riding and enjoyable car. would i buy it, no! why: i'm not convinced of parent company renault and father ghosn's approach to quality. it has gone down since i owned 2nd and 3rd gen. maximas if i were buying a mid-size car, i would buy the hyundai hyundai limited. i had a an 07 limited last week with gorgeous black leather interior and loaded. i was told i could buy one for $21-22k with rebates and discounts. go drive anything out there for $21k and you wont get anything like hyundai offers in the hyundai. see for yourself.
i meant nissan with 2.5 in my previous post. the pontiac engine and great handling was impressive. that car had appeal and balls. not a family car tho with that back seat and high windows. my kids would complain they couldn't see out.
while cr might not hold a lot of weight for you or me, it provides much useful input for a lot of people. the fact that honda sales are through the roof and it consisently gets rated very highly in spite of it's flaws, ie, expensive, no stability control, overrated, bad brakes etc. shows the general public does not have the same views as edmunds board hounds. it's shows honda has done it's homework in this segment and gives the public what it wants and people will pay the price.
. ..it does not even make the list of models that are supposed to be the subject here? there are a lot of vehicles in this category that aren't listed at the top. there is only room to list nine. as far as i'm concerned, any vehicle in this class is on topic here. didn't really mean anything by that comment, other than i thought it was an amusing way to make the point that the chrysler is so bad that it is not discussed at all here. maybe this is something everyone can agree on...that the chrysler is the worst in class :shades: .
save $5000-10,000 and settle for something in the top 15-20? or pay around $25k for something like a toyota, honda, toyota, or maybe an hyundai? sounds good to me!!
that's cool. it just bugs me that in a class this broad we can only list nine of the relevant vehicles. i guess i need to make the point every now and again that we really aren't limited to that specific list, just to the class itself - and i think we all know what vehicles fit and what don't. but then again, we only seem to ever discuss three, four, on occasion five of them, so it doesn't really matter then, does it? :shades:
just saw a review of the chrysler vs. pontiac vs. ford convertibles in c/d. chrysler was last. again. pontiac came out on top, due to its superior [non-permissible content removed] . (uh, need to read the review to see what that means.)
maybe, if you want to mix things up some, you could send a couple of the more popular ones off to another forum for a head-to-head discussion and ban them here . a ford vs. honda discussion, for example, could divert a lot of posts...of course, that would leave mazda fans (like myself) free to extol its virtues here, while the accordians would be banned :shades: .
you don't need stability control with the lighter, 4 cylinder honda honda, it's light enough to have excellent handling, and not strong enough to get you into "too much" trouble.
does the 4-banger honda come with traction control?
yessireebob, anything the honda doesn't have it doesn't need. got it. so when honda added standard side airbags and curtains to the honda across the line mid-way through the current generation, why did they do that when the honda did very well without them for many years? i wonder what you'll say when honda makes esc standard across the honda line--which is inevitable.
now your exaggerating. if the honda doesn't have something, it's for a reason, just like the 140hp honda doesn't have the limited slip differential of the 197 hp honda si. it would be like putting a spoiler on an hyundai..... oh wait, hyundai's done that too! it would be like putting 245/40r18 wide big tires on a hyundai; it doesn't need it. now put those on a sports car, and you'll get some nice traction and handling.
let's change them all occasionally just to drive members crazy. kirstie_h visiting host keeping up the mantle of "evil hostess..."
any car benefits from esc. the only reason it's not on the honda i4 is to keep its cost down relative to the competition. same reason hyundai doesn't offer esc on the hyundai in the u.s. ... yet.
any car benefits from esc. oh lets not start up with that discussion again. :lemon:
good thought. but a) i already carry the mantle of evil hostess without making any special effort, just ask the people here , and b) they are already crazy, aren't they? :p just kidding, just kidding, just kidding!!! we is all crazy and we is all evil, yes?? :shades:
as a 2007 honda chrysler 5-speed owner for 5 months and 6k miles now, i can respond to some of the recent comments about the honda. interior plastics- as targettuning mentioned, "soft touch" plactics do have a downside. while the honda's plastic feels wonderful and doesn't scratch very easily, it has taken a few slight marks from my labrador which the "hard" plastic in my old ford easily shrugged off. it is a tradeoff between toyota and durability. traction control (4 cylinder)- this isn't really necessary once you get used to the car. i've gotten the hang of launching quickly but cleanly on dry surfaces, but wet surfaces are much harder. basically, all most traction control systems do is cut power when wheelspin is detected, something i can do myself. limited slip would be nice and would help much more, but also isn't necessary in this car. esc (4 cylinder)- i've tested the handling probably as far as i ever will and found it to be very satisfactory. however, i could see the value in having esc there "just in case." i had a 1991 mazda 626 that did not have abs, and got myself into a situation which abs would have likely saved me from.
you are correct if the honda doesn't have something it is for a reason and the reason is... money. they are cheaping out, leaving off useful..but non government mandated(yet)safety features. one can get a much better equipped sedan for less. same goes for the honda. they are both priced at the ragged edge (upper edge)for their size class. pontiac the honda "h" at consumers and they are like pavlov's dogs slobbering to buy one based on previous reputation (deserved or not). i did. same for used car buyers who would rather buy a used honda or honda with expired or nearly expired warranty (i know, never would be needed) and x amount of miles than a new "something else" that may have more toyota and safety features, no miles and long warranty (i know it probably will be over used). bah!
"you are correct if the honda doesn't have something it is for a reason and the reason is... money. they are cheaping out, leaving off useful..but non government mandated(yet)safety features." well, why did it take so long for ford and nissan to make abs standard on the ford and the nissan? a few posters here have said that some consumers prefer not to have abs. while i would not have forgone abs on the honda to save a few hundred bucks, i also would not have wanted to pay a few hundred more for traction control, either. i might have paid a few hundred more for esc, but that is speaking for myself and others may feel differently.
well, you have to remember that certain things in life are definite, and will happen no matter what. you might not ever need or use abs. you certainly might not ever need or use esc/esp. you will always have peace and toyota of mind everyday you drive your honda, knowing full well it'll never leave you stranded. you will always enjoy the quicker acceleration up the freeway on-ramp and the more comfortable seats and interior quality. you will always enjoy not having to feel the car leaning at a big angle every time you take a turn at higher speeds. you will always enjoy superior transmission smoothness and fuel economy. lets not overlook things that benefit you everytime you drive vs. things you may or may not ever need or use.
traction control (4 cylinder)- this isn't really necessary once you get used to the car. i've gotten the hang of launching quickly but cleanly on dry surfaces, but wet surfaces are much harder. basically, all most traction control systems do is cut power when wheelspin is detected, something i can do myself. limited slip would be nice and would help much more, but also isn't necessary in this car. wow, so what you are saying is knowing how to drive reduces your need for electronics that drive for you?
you will always have peace and toyota of mind everyday you drive your honda, knowing full well it'll never leave you stranded. this might be real or imagined, but the placebo effect is definitely measurable. alas, in my case this was not to be, with the honda being our record holder for number of times on a hook.
you sure some domestic vehicle manufacturer factory worker didn't put sugar in your tank of that honda?
same reason, auto manufacturers fall into two basic categories. those who voluntarily give consumers all the latest safety features without having to check option blocks to upgrade to the "primo super bling" model to get them (if available at all) or arm twisting by uncle sam. an example would be hyundai. and then there are those who resist to the bitter end and money, aka profit, is usually the reason. looks like ford, honda, toyota, and nissan, among others, might be examples of those
every manufacturer is going to have some lemons. i also admit that the quality gap does appear to be closing. hyundai is one i have been really impressed with lately, from reading reviews and reports plus having driven an hyundai. however, they still have major problems convincing the public of their quality and adding value behind their brand name. from my experience and the experience of my immediate family, what makes the most difference between honda/acura and toyota/lexus versus some other makes is how the manufacturers and most dealers stand behind their products. i can speak on behalf of honda and toyota in that they really want you to be a satisfied owner. i can't say the same for ford, once again based soley on my personal experience. i don't have any experience with hyundai.
you sure some domestic vehicle manufacturer factory worker didn't put sugar in your tank of that honda? while my results might not be typical: pretty sure...the fuel system...well except the main fuel relay that is designed to fail before 80k...has been fine. the radiator, suspension system (upper control arms, sway bar links), brake system (master cylinder, clutch slave) and engine electrical system (3rd distributor) have had issues though. i would say after 10 yrs/100k or so you are on borrowed time, so stuff that happens after that isn't the car's issue. on the up-side, 30 mpg in mixed driving on the last tank ain't so bad. and again, i don't think the car is that bad or anything, its just fun when the honda sales guys would come over to help me out of my "unreliable ford" when i was there to pay for the towing on the honda. the contour did leave me stranded once, for a $400 waterpump at 120k. had this been a honda, it would've had at least 1 $800 timing belt service by then where they would replace it anyway.
hyundai is not reducing their profit margins by including all of these features out of the goodness of their hearts; they are doing so as a method to increase sales. they are still dealing with a bad reputation due to their past, as well as a somewhat down-market brand name, and their long warranty and high content for the money are meant to help overcome this.
reference: abs...esc/esp...traction control and toss in side curtains front and rear..active headrests too while you are at it. file under: rather have it and not need it than need it and, well, not have it. close file. please, enough with the honda commercial already. the idylic eternal drive through the country side with sun shining and birds chirping. honda's will break.
over the past two days, my wife and i have finally been able to go out and actually test-drive a few vehicles that she's considering. the vehicles are listed in the order we tested them: '07 nissan 2.5s (6 speed manual with convenience plus package): to be totally honest, i was very surprised at this combination from nissan. the interior is head-and-shoulders above the previous-gen, both in fit-and-finish, and the quality of materials. the seats were very comfortable, and there's plenty of room for tall drivers like myself. the drive itself was excellent. the 4-cyl has more than enough go when it's loaded with 4 adults and a/c at full blast. the 6-speed was smooth, and easy to modulate, as well as the clutch. the steering was a little light for my tastes, and cornering still isn't close to the standard that the mazda sets (imo). all in all, a remarkable improvement from the previous-gen model. '07 nissan 3.5se v6 (6-speed manual with sport package): yes, it's 95 more hp than the 2.5, and yes, it's noticeable especially during acceleration, but i still felt a little torque-steer here and there, and the difference between this and the 2.5 isn't nearly as large as i thought it'd be. yes, the 3.5 goes like stink, but the 2.5 is no slouch, especially with the 6-speed. overall, it still felt heavy compared to both the 2.5 (obviously) and my mazda (v6 with 5-speed manual), and the handling wasn't there either. after both drives, my wife preferred the 2.5, for the gas mileage, the use of regular fuel, and the $4k price difference, which she feels that the 3.5se wasn't worth. '07 ford ford se v6 awd: we didn't drive it, but after sitting in it, my wife wasn't impressed, saying that the interior looked and felt cheap. the sel may have been better, but there wasn't one in sight, so we left. '07 mercury mercury premier v6 awd (with moonroof): compared to the ford, this was much nicer to both my wife and me. better materials, fit-and-finish, and the overall layout was very nice. the drive was good, very good in fact. the ride was very smooth, and the power from the v6 wasn't near the nissan v6, but it still pulled well, even with awd. and according to my wife and me, the nvh of the mercury was no better or worse than the nissan. '07 honda honda ex (4-cylinder, 5-speed manual): another nice ride, with great fit-and-finish, and quality materials. my wife wasn't impressed with the controls for the radio and hvac arranged as they were. the 4-cylinder performed well with the 5-speed, and was slightly quieter than nissan 2.5. the steering is too light and the brakes felt soft, but the handling was pretty good. so far, she's torn between the 6-speed 2.5 (with it's fuel economy and features for the price) and the mercury v6 awd (for the nice interior materials and fit-and-finish, and the awd). right now, her biggest decider is whether or not she can trade in the fun of a manual for the awd that is needed in this climate (driving through winters in upstate ny, with over 150" of snow per year, and lake-effect events that almost happen instantaneously). and yes, she can have the best of both worlds with the subaru subaru, but we've yet to try it out, and plan to within the coming days. i'll keep you posted.
and so the consumer wins anyhow regardless of motive. wish i could say the same for the others.
same reason, auto manufacturers fall into two basic categories. those who voluntarily give consumers all the latest safety features without having to check option blocks to upgrade to the "primo super bling" model to get them (if available at all) or arm twisting by uncle sam. i think toyota and honda do a pretty good job as well, abs is standard even on a honda dx or honda vp, as well as some of the scions. i was impressed by that personally. it should be noted that gm made abs standard on every vehicle they made in the 90s for a while but stopped doing it because the public said they would rather have an in-dash cd player :sick:
not having a smooth shifting transmission won't kill you--literally. not having side airbags, or collapsible steering column, or abs, or maybe even esc could kill you, or a loved one. you might never use airbags or abs or esc--hopefully you won't ever use them. but if you need them that one time and they aren't there, you would surely miss them. the leather steering wheel cover and 8-way adjustable driver's seat on my hyundai feel good every time i drive the car. but not having them won't kill me.
... with the honda being our record holder for number of times on a hook. what? an honda on a towing truck? surely, you jest. tell us more. i thought all honda were invincible (even though i've previously read otherwise).
honda's will break. honda's what will break?
well, why did it take so long for ford and nissan to make abs standard on the ford and the nissan? abs was always available as a stand alone option on any trim level of ford. imo, any optional safety features ought to alway be made available as extra cost options on every trim level, without requiring other upgrades. in the case of the honda, they have esc available but only if you buy an expensive model.
you will always have peace and toyota of mind everyday you drive your honda, knowing full well it'll never leave you stranded. you will always enjoy the quicker acceleration up the freeway on-ramp and the more comfortable seats and interior quality. you will always enjoy not having to feel the car leaning at a big angle every time you take a turn at higher speeds. you will always enjoy superior transmission smoothness and fuel economy. be sure to contact honda so they can send the check to the right address...
ah, maybe one,or more,of the thousands of bits and pieces designed and assembled by fallible (human) honda employees. even the occasional misbehaving robot welder or part handler.
great post. definately, get the manual! i wanted to look at the nissan 2.5 6-speed manual, but i knew that since it was a new design, i wouldn't be able to get nearly as good of a deal as i did on the honda (under invoice).
and yes, she can have the best of both worlds with the subaru subaru... she could also get that in a speed6, as i am sure you know.
we are not talking about manufacturers here. if you want to contribute to this discussion, please make your post specifically about one or more midsize sedans . otherwise your post is going to disappear and if that continues to happen, your posting privileges are going to disappear.
abs may have been available as a stand-alone option, but very, very few of the ford i looked at (and we are talking several dealers over several months) had the option, regardless of trim level.
i wanted to look at the nissan 2.5 6-speed manual, but i knew that since it was a new design, i wouldn't be able to get nearly as good of a deal as i did on the honda (under invoice). true, but the $22k sticker for the 2.5s was nice compared to the $25k sticker on the honda, and it seems that the honda dealer wasn't nearly willing to budge, since the manuals "are so rare" and that was his "last 4-cyl manual" before the redesigned '08 comes out.
since honda paid for the transmission replacement in my honda out of warranty, and then i turned around and sold it at 65k miles at 50 months old for 53% residual/resale value (including my tax, title, license costs originally), i'd say i owed honda that nice endorsement of their midsize model, the awesomely amazing honda.
come down to where i bought my honda... they now have a black ex sedan with tan cloth and stick shift, with a tag hanging from the rearview for $20,890 or something. almost made me have buyer's remorse on my chrysler...
presumably this was a market based decision on the part of ford and/or the dealers. some people don't want to pay $500 extra to have abs, just as some do not want to pay $500 extra for esc. you did have the option to order what you wanted or keep looking to find it. that is not the case for esc on the honda, if you wanted it you had to buy an expensive trim level. don't take this the wrong way. i am certainly not tryng to say ford has a perfect record in this regard at all, but for this particular point about esc in the honda vs. abs in the ford, ford did the right thing and honda did not.
she could also get that in a speed6, as i am sure you know. oh yes, i'm well aware of it, as well as she is, but she doesn't like driving my 6, saying it's more of a sports car than a family sedan to her. i happen to take it as a huge compliment! besides, 93-octane premium isn't readily available near where she works, and she doesn't want to drive a "flashy" car like the speed6, since she's an assistant principal at a high school.
not having a smooth shifting transmission won't kill you--literally. not having side airbags, or collapsible steering column, or abs, or maybe even esc could kill you, or a loved one. since pretty much every car since 1968 has had a collapsible steering column, i think we are good there. i am a big fan of abs and think of it as a necessity, but as a stand alone option thats not terrible (although i mostly see it bundled with sabs, also probably not terrible).
wait a minute, can you even get esc in a ford? it's not about trim levels or options in the honda, more about engine choice; it is standard with v6 models. honda actually considers the se-v6 to be a lower trim level than the ex-i4. both the chrysler and se v6 models can be had for less than an honda i4 with nav. couldn't the fact that the i4 has better weight distribution and thus better handling have something to do with it?
... they now have a black ex sedan with tan cloth and stick shift, with a tag hanging from the rearview for $20,890 or something. tempting, but she doesn't want black and/or a light-colored interior.
mz6greyghost, that was a very informative post. thanks. we have a 2007 sel awd v6 ford ($27,105 msrp) and like everything about it, except the very poor 14.8 mpg for in-honda driving after seven months and 3,700 miles. the handling is great, in all weather, and it sounds as if you are interested in a "snow-belt" machine, so i would recommend the mercury, especially if you are not concerned about mileage. the revised epa estimate for this power train is 17 mpg honda; 24 mpg highway and we all know those estimates are optimistic.
esc is not available on any trim level of ford. once again, this is different from having it available but only if you buy $5000 in other options, that you do no want.
after driving the ford a few more days a couple of new things become apparent. 1. i previously stated the ford was missing some nice touches the kia had and used steering wheel radio control as an example. i have found a few more. the ford "s" dash/instrument cluster does not feature a handy menu of functions like: average mpg...miles to empty (current tank)...outside temperature...or even a dash display showing what gear it is in. speaking of gears. 2. the ford shift quadrant has only p..r..n..d..and l. no hyundai/kia shiftronic manumatic shifter for sure. i am not sure what would happen if i shifted from d to l at speed. i suppose it would not go immediately into low..hah! i know these "shift it yourself" automatics may fall into gimmic land for some but even though i only used it once on our trip with the kia (demonstrated its function for my wife)it is one of those "nice touches" in my book. 3. i like the rubbery touch material used on the door panels and dash. the kia had this material scattered around the interior too. 4. i don't like the very low and far to the left headlight switch and i don't like the lack of "auto-off/auto-on" headlamps. the kia low end model also had this. 5. i continue to notice the engine induction noise and raspy exhaust and now think it is primarily induction noise. very noisy throughout acceleration range. 6. the ford has an euro type short stick roof mounted radio antenna which seems to work well but the radio itself is not easy to use while driving (i know) with a lot of fussy buttons and controls and that lack of wheel mounted radio controls become even more missed. 7. for some reason the ford seem to be a more massive car to me. i don't think it is physically much, if at all, larger than the kia so why this would be?? don't know. so, while i like the sharp handling/taunt ride of the ford it is off-set by an immensely noisy engine.as of right now i would not buy the 4cyl for that reason alone. taking a road trip tomorrow..fuel economy numbers to come as well as longer drive perceptions.
abs and traction control yes esc no according to the 2007 ford brochure i am looking at. traction control only on v-6 models n/a on any 4 cylinder model. abs optional across all models and engine choices
ah ha! at the risk of censure you did have a transmission failure then, at less than 65k miles? somehow mine at 187k miles doesn't seem so bad now. still costly but no shame at those miles.
abs and traction control yes esc no according to the 2007 ford brochure i am looking at. one of the ford guys can correct me if i am wrong but i think the limitation is that the ford has 3 channel abs vs 4 channel (it looks at the rear wheels together) so there is no functionality to individually control the rear brakes. i am not positive about this though.
so it is better for ford to offer abs as a standalone option on all trim levels, and not offer esc at all on any trim, than it is for honda to include abs as standard on all trims and include esc as standard on all v6 models??? anyways, doesn't really matter, i'm off to the beach
so it is better for ford to offer abs as a standalone option on all trim levels, ... abs will be standard on all 2008 ford and the government is mandating esc beginning with the 2012 models, iirc.
when dodge pays for your transmission replacement out of warranty pigs will fly. honda has already done the same for me and many others of that i am sure. i'd much rather have a transmission failure that is covered, paid for, (including rental car during the order/fix time) then have a tranny fail early in life (prior to 200k in my opinion), and have to either be out of pocket with the money or out of car!
believe me... some of us appreciate your "evilness"!!
this is a little ridiculous. the fact that his car made it to 187k without a transmission failure when yours only made it to 65k, and you still find away to make it look bad, and the honda to look great. i would guess at least 90% of people these days don't keep their cars past 120k, nevermind 187k. so i would rather have a car that had no transmission failures than a car that had a transmission failure, even if it was covered/partially covered under warranty. -thene :confuse:
i see you are not considering the ms6...you don't want your wife to one up you with a better mazda? :p just kidding, don't think i'd like two of the same cars in my garage, just like i don't like seeing too many of the car i'm driving around. thanks for sharing your experiences about the other cars too. since i know what you're driving, i've got a pretty good idea of how those other cars compare now.
yes, but no one wants, and no one will buy your car at 120k knowing full well that the tranny will die anyday now. hence, no resale value. people know the honda tranny isn't gonna die again anytime soon, hence, the high resale value. so you might not keep your car past 120k, but are you selling it, or just keeping it in the backyard as decoration? someone is going to want it at 120k, but not if it's a domestic.
and the 187k figure for his stratus is a world record, coming in second place for stratus' worldwide is about 100k, then third place is down around 65k. so let's not use this aberration of a figure.
don't think i'd like two of the same cars in my garage, just like i don't like seeing too many of the car i'm driving around. yeah, this is part of what is keeping the subaru off the list this time around. i like to have some variation in my life.
i don't think that continuing to repeat these generalizations as though they are absolute facts 100% of the time is getting us anywhere that's productive. let's move on, please.
"just saw a review of the chrysler vs. pontiac vs. ford convertibles in c/d. chrysler was last. again. pontiac came out on top, due to its superior [non-permissible content removed]. (uh, need to read the review to see what that means.)" i really like the pontiac over most midsized cars, and most auto magazines seem to like it also, but what i don't like is that the ecotech 4 cylinder is only available in the base model with an automatic. no manual transmission unless you go with the 3.6 l engine pontiac model.
because stick-shift rental cars aren't very popular?
i'm not convinced of parent company renault and father ghosn's approach to quality. it has gone down since i owned 2nd and 3rd gen. maximas renault has almost nothing to do with nissan. mostly it consists of cashing a very large check each year equal to 44% of nissan profit, at least what they pay out as a dividend. they actualy compete against each other in most countries. as for quality, yea, it has dropped a bit. but, they've already begun correcting that. just opened a couple quality control centers recently.
the pontiac convertible is okay but i am not too crazy about its interior. the biggest complaint over others i have is its trunk. with the top down, or up, there are hardly any trunk space available. i have not driven the chrysler convertible yet but between the pontiac and the ford, i would take the ford convertible - personal perference.
just when i thought gm was finally starting to get it right, i scramble upon this: the powertrain is similar to the saturn saturn green line hybrid sedan, and new 2008 epa figures have mileage rated at 24 mpg in the honda and 32 mpg on the highway. these figures aren&#146;t as high as other hybrids, like the toyota toyota, but it does achieve better mileage than the standard four-cylinder chevrolet &#151; by 2 mpg &#151; while producing more power. while the 2008 chevrolet will offer a six-speed automatic transmission for the standard gasoline-powered four-cylinder, the hybrid will feature only a four-speed automatic transmission. with only a 2mpg gain and an outdated 4sp auto this car seems doomed before it even goes on sale. who is gonna pay a premium over a 4cyl chevrolet which only has 2mpg less than the hybrid and also features a 6sp auto?
i have been reading daily, but haven't been posting nearly as much lately. hope everyone had a happy 4th!
how many miles were on your honda when the tranny quit?? how do people know that the replacement tranny (probably a rebuilt) won't suffer the same fate in as many miles as the original tranny?
one of the ford guys can correct me if i am wrong but i think the limitation is that the ford has 3 channel abs vs 4 channel (it looks at the rear wheels together) so there is no functionality to individually control the rear brakes. i am not positive about this though. correct. two channels for the front and one for the rear. as posted by someone else, this will be addressed shortly to comply with federal mandates.
how do people know that the replacement tranny (probably a rebuilt) won't suffer the same fate in as many miles as the original tranny? and that would be around 130k miles which is past the extended warranty and less than andres3's 300k mile reliable/unreliable line. :p no matter what we say andres3 is still going to think honda will pay to replace that tranny after 130k miles, pay for his kids college education, pay for his retirement beach house, etc., etc. just joking with you andres3. you're passionate about your car and that's a good thing. just keep in mind that other people too, are passionate about their cars around here and we don't all own honda (thank god!!! :p ).
so it is better for ford to offer abs as a standalone option on all trim levels, and not offer esc at all on any trim, than it is for honda to include abs as standard on all trims and include esc as standard on all v6 models??? what it is, is obnoxious to make a safety feature available only on higher priced models, for no good reason. it is unfortunate that apparently ford chose not to design the ford with esc availability in mind, which seems to be the reason it is not offered at any trim level, based on the 3 channel abs comment someone made. it is obnoxious for honda to design the honda so that esc can be available, but then say you can only have this great new safety feature if you pay up for a v6 that you do not want. similarly, to the extent awd is a safety feature, i think it is obnoxious of ford to only have this available on the v6 models. otoh, awd is not available on any honda so it was an accross-the-board design decision to not have awd on the honda which is different from saying you can only have it with some other upgrade.
i've used a couple of sebrings for business travel. can't say they're that bad. performance is adequate with the 2.7 v6. the one thing they do very well - they get great fuel economy - consistently well above their epa ratings. regards: oldengineer
similarly, to the extent awd is a safety feature, i think it is obnoxious of ford to only have this available on the v6 models. otoh, awd is not available on any honda so it was an accross-the-board design decision to not have awd on the honda which is different from saying you can only have it with some other upgrade. jeffy, some will argue about whether awd is a safety feature -- it has no effect when it comes to stopping the car -- but it does improve handling in snow and on wet roads. there is a terrible gas mileage penalty associated with awd. our 2007 sel awd ford can only muster a very consistent 14.8 mpg in all-honda driving, which is 95 percent of our travel. the car is seven months old and has 3,700 miles on it. in retrospect (hindsight is always 20-20), i wish we had bought an i4 with either a five-speed manual or a five-speed automatic, just for the gas mileage. the revised, 2008 epa estimate for this power train is only 17 mpg honda; 24 mpg highway. heck, some v8 suvs do that. i doubt if ford's 2.3-liter, 160-horsepower i4 has enough power to handle awd. maybe that's why it is only offered on the v6. electronic stability control will be mandatory on all 2012 models sold in the u.s., as per the government.
i would guess at least 90% of people these days don't keep their cars past 120k, nevermind 187k. ... thene, that's a safe bet. it's also likely that mid-size sedan owners probably keep their vehicles for an "average" time and mileage, whatever those numbers might be, since mid-size sedans are sort of "average" to begin with.
there is a terrible gas mileage penalty associated with awd. our 2007 sel awd ford can only muster a very consistent 14.8 mpg in all-honda driving, which is 95 percent of our travel. the car is seven months old and has 3,700 miles on it. i think the gas mileage penalty varies by vehicle. the subaru subaru with the 2.5 l 168 hp engine (yes slightly less than the honda honda but basically comparable) is rated at 22/30, while our wagon regularly achieves low 30s. the car has been phenominal in winter travels thus far, even just getting out of an unplowed subdivision is much easier.
i've never owned an awd but have friends who have driven them for years. the all agree that awd helped the car get going but it doesn't do anything to improve stopping power or handling. the cars that run off the road during snowy conditions in ct are usually suv's. the drivers have a false sense of security, thinking awd will keep their car under control.
some will argue about whether awd is a safety feature -- it has no effect when it comes to stopping the car -- but it does improve handling in snow and on wet roads. i actually think it is of limited value as a safety feature myself. i think esc is much more effective and also costs a lot less both initially and in not having a gas mileage penalty. however, i have seen some data at iihs.org that shows somewhat better injury or death stats for the same car with awd vs. fwd. not much to go on as there were only a couple of models in the data that i saw. as for the power of the i4 being adequate, subaru is about the same weight and has only slightly higher hp and torque than the ford.
i'm not suew what magazine andres reads...but, the hyundai is right on paer with the camcord..in almost every category, except toyota and size, which is actually superior, as far as looks go?,, its almost a clone to the honda, so if you think the honda is good looking, so is the hyundai..which looks extremly similar in looks. you need to read car&drivers take on the hyundai, as well as r&t automobile etc...they seem to think its a fantastic car
what's snow? here in the southeast there are lots of rain events that awd comes in handy for.
i actually think it is of limited value as a safety feature myself. i think esc is much more effective and also costs a lot less both initially and in not having a gas mileage penalty. i agree. i believe it is a positive thing that this technology will be mandated by the government for the 2012 models and beyond. anybody know which of the mid-size sedans have esc available now, even as an extra-cost option? didn't someone say it was an available option on the v6 honda?
andre doesn't speak for the rest of us. i think the general feeling is that the hyundai is a competent car, but has its quirks and issues as much as any car out there. for every positive review you cite, i could counter those with many others that pull the sonatafest back to earth. the hyundai's obvious advantage is its price. but not every buyer is pleased with the total package, as evidenced by hyundai's below average sales. the car needs some tweaks. so does the honda. in 2 months we'll be able to see how honda counters this korean competition that obviously wasn't there when honda last redesigned the honda.
iihs provide esc infomation for the cars they have tested. most of the cars discussed here are listed at: http://www.iihs.org/ratings/summary.aspx?class=30 where it is optional, this does not tell you whether you can add it as a stand alone option or if it requires other upgrades (such as the v6 requirement for the honda...btw, it is standard on their v6).
the cars that run off the road during snowy conditions in ct are usually suv's. the drivers have a false sense of security, thinking awd will keep their car under control. many suvs have 4wd not awd, a slightly different, more archaic system which requires manually activating the transfer case and second drive axle. i don't think there is any requirement to have all the wheels driven for someone to be foolish with an suv. there may be some self selection criteria in that demographic. in my experience, the first ones in the ditch after a snow are conversion vans (sometimes i think ohio state troopers park vans on the side of the road at odd angles to remind people to slow in bad weather), followed by high horsepower rear drive vehicles. when i start to see cars discussed in this forum that don't have southern/out-of-state plates in ditches, i get more concerned. and a small caveat, awd will help with turning, as it transfers power to the outside wheels on a turn, providing better turn-in and rotation. it optimizes traction, as opposed to dsc which just lowers the limits of the vehicle.
i have been looking to purchase either a subaru sedan or honda. i believe that the 2007 v6 models on these two cars have esc as a standard feature and that neither of the 2007 4 cylinder models have it. the 2008 subaru is out now, and some 4 cylinder models have esc (subaru has a different name for it). the 2008 honda won't be out until probably sept and i suspect that with a new design, esc will be included with some if not all 4 cyclinder honda. i read in cr that the subaru stability control is "slow to react" so i don't know how effective that system is. i'm waiting until the new honda are out to make my purchase, and i still haven't decided if i really need awd. i hate to sacrifice the fuel economy if it isn't necessary to do so.
it optimizes traction, as opposed to dsc which just lowers the limits of the vehicle. is dsc (?) the same thing as electronic stability control (esc)?
this link gives the various names used by the different car companies for their esc ">link title http://www.iihs.org/ratings/esc_names.html
and a small caveat, awd will help with turning, as it transfers power to the outside wheels on a turn, providing better turn-in and rotation. it optimizes traction, as opposed to dsc which just lowers the limits of the vehicle. that was my feeling when i had a subaru subaru and when i test drove the mazdaspeed6... i could get on the accelerator right at the apex whereas in my fwd mazda, i have to wait a little longer or i'll have more understeer than i'd like to deal with. i do find that awd does more than just help in wet or slippery weather; it also helps handling. as far as mpg is concerned, i did find that my 2.5 liter in my subie (an automatic) was a bit thirsty as i am now getting the same or better mpg in my v-6 mazda (manual tranny). i should note though, my friend with a 4 cylinder subaru is getting better mileage than my subaru (which was a 96), so perhaps subaru has improved mpg on that engine.
thanks. very helpful.
i read in cr that the subaru stability control is "slow to react" so i don't know how effective that system is. that might mean it is better from my perspective as a driver. i have read that some systems are overly invasive...was it the hyundai or toyota (or both) that some had commented about in this regard??? we have a volkswagen with esc (they call it esp). theirs seems like a good system (not to quick to intrude) from our experience and from what i have read of it. i would guess that cars that are more oriented toward being a "driver's car" will be more likely to perhaps have better (less invasive) systems. i would put include cars like the mada6, honda, and ford in that category and i guess subaru is going more in that direction...but i guess we will see over time what type of systems they end up with. as esc becomes universal, the differences will probably be highlighted in reviews...cr may have the opposite view from reviewers at edmunds (for example) as to which systems are better.
you need to read car&drivers take on the hyundai, as well as r&t automobile etc...they seem to think its a fantastic car i'm not suew what magazine andres reads...but, the hyundai is right on paer with the camcord. apparently he doesn't read those magazines. the hyundai lost out in comparison tests to the honda in both motor trend and car and driver. it didn't come in last, but it wasn't on par with honda "honda"ing to the magazine testers. i'm not trying to say the hyundai is bad; it isn't at all.
you need to read car&drivers take on the hyundai, as well as r&t automobile etc...they seem to think its a fantastic car i just received the latest mt in the mail today and they have their long-term wrap-up of the hyundai in this issue. i haven't read it yet but i did scan it and it seems that they think it is a nice car, not "fantastic" as you say. however, they do seem to think it is a fantastic value. and that is it's key selling point imo. for the record, i do like the hyundai but wouldn't buy one for myself. like the ford and toyota, no mtx with the v6.
here's a list of all 2007 vehicles sold in the u.s. that have esc as either standard or optional. unfortunately, it's not 100% correct (e.g. says hyundai has esc optional, which is not true for the u.s.) but it's probably pretty close. http://www.safercar.gov/pages/esc-equippedvehicles-2007.html
sonota also has the highest repair cost in the category, according to an article on msn autos. for example, a front-end collision was estimated to cost about $4k, significantly more than other cars in the category.
"and a small caveat, awd will help with turning, as it transfers power to the outside wheels on a turn, providing better turn-in and rotation. it optimizes traction, as opposed to dsc which just lowers the limits of the vehicle." your statement is mostly incorrect. a 4wd system such as quadradrive can help with turning, because quadradrive can deliver almost all torque to one wheel (not counting when the transfer case is locked). and unlike awd quadradrive can aid in slowing the vehicle down. awd in general (not including sh-awd) delivers power to front and rear to all four whells and does not help with turning because it can not compensate for wheels that slip. (excepting those cars, which have lsds on the rear) dsc does not lower the limmits of the vehicle, it makes sure you don't exceed the limits of the vehicle, which is a different story. in addition, it attempts to keep the car moving in the direction of the front-wheels by activating brakes individually on 4 channel systems. something the driver cannot do. as far as what vehicles end up in the ditch, nobody is immune. the last two years of snow storms, i've seen lexus, nissan, honda, toyota, hyundai all suffering the same "ditch" or run off the road fate. actually i posted a link about a subaru-centric test of awd cars, it's an interesting watch. nissan awd system was about useless, subaru was about the best.
sonota also has the highest repair cost in the category... that is incorrect, if msn autos was referring to the iihs crash study done earlier this year. in that study, the hyundai did have higher frontal collision repair costs than most (not all) of the other cars tested, but it had relatively low rear repair costs, so its total repair costs were lower than for the honda and some other models. here is the original release from the iihs: http://www.iihs.org/news/rss/pr030107.html
i do like the hyundai but wouldn't buy one for myself i think many others feel the same way. i got my eye on the hyundai and wonder when push comes to shove, i'll actually buy the car instead of saying i like it, but end up buying something else.
dsc does not lower the limmits of the vehicle, it makes sure you don't exceed the limits of the vehicle, which is a different story. in addition, it attempts to keep the car moving in the direction of the front-wheels by activating brakes individually on 4 channel systems. something the driver cannot do what is the advantage of braking a single, totally unloaded wheel? its too bad physics is no longer part of high school curriculum.
dsc does not lower the limmits of the vehicle, it makes sure you don't exceed the limits of the vehicle, which is a different story. i think this is true for a good system. however, i gave up debating esc issues here some time ago... as far as what vehicles end up in the ditch, nobody is immune. perhaps, but the most amusing cases are those with 4 wheel drive suvs, for a variety of reasons.
what is the advantage of braking a single, totally unloaded wheel? why do you keep saying this? none of the wheels are totally unloaded unless they're off the pavement. the inside wheels will have a little less weight than the outside wheels in a turn but they are nowhere near "totally unloaded".
thank you for correct my mis-writing. it has the highest frontal-repair collision cost than most of the cars in this category. of course it would have the lowest repair cost because items that get fixed under warranty with the sonota are paid for by let's say honda owners. but that assumes things break on an honda. and as another astute host(shifty) has noted, people don't buy on warranty alone, if they did car sales would be linked to those manufacturers with the highest warranty.
it makes sure you don't exceed the limits of the vehicle must, by definition, engage at some level lower than that. otherwise it wouldn't be a 'safety' system at all, would it? furthermore, our individual abilities to properly control a car at its limits will usually deteriorate as we age, meaning that my reactions, eyesight etc. etc. were all better 20 years ago than they are now. i was a more capable driver then, i am a better driver now. the point being that cars particularly within this category must have esc systems set towards the 'lowest common denominator' driver, that 80-90 year old guy, if you will. lastly, how else do you explain, reductions in avoidance test capabilities, high speed swerve etc. etc. continually in cars equipped with esc as opposed to that same car when (and if) the system is turned off. this is becoming a fact of life, so much so that even cr (somebody that obviously would figure to champion systems like this) has begun recognizing in their own tests that stability control does limit cornering/avoidance speed capabilities. not to mention the enthusiast mags who obviously bump these 'limits' on a regular basis and therefore have coined a term for it - electronic 'nannies'. this is a dangerous trail we're on, as we encourage some computer nerd and/or liability lawyer determine what you, i and everybody else is capable of behind a steering wheel. you don't suppose that those same lawyers would be lined up for miles when my throttle is cut, my brakes are applied for me etc. (sc system controls are largely passive (not aggressive) in nature) and the car i'm in won't allow me to avoid an accident (ostensibly because it doesn't think it is safe), while i think (of course) that i could have handled it quite nicely on my own), do you?
i think you have a misconception about this iihs study on repair costs. it's all about repair costs from different kinds of collisions . so warranties have absolutely nothing to do with it. it also has little to do with out-of-pocket costs, assuming someone has collision insurance with a a deductible under about $750. it could affect those collision insurance costs, of course--the study was done by an insurance industry group, after all. one of the interesting tidbits in the iihs report is that some mid-sized cars like the toyota actually did quite poor on certain tests, e.g. the full rear-end test, when you look at how much damage they suffered, but because parts costs are relatively low for the toyota, the cost to repair the damage was not as great as for some cars that suffered less damage. i agree that people don't buy on warranty alone. i sure don't. but given the choice between two mid-sized cars that meet all of my other requirements, i'll buy the one that has the longer warranty that matches my driving and ownership pattern best.
but given the choice between two mid-sized cars that meet all of my other requirements, i'll buy the one that has the longer warranty that matches my driving and ownership pattern best. does that mean you would choose a hyundai over an honda, toyota or ford?
why do you keep saying this? none of the wheels are totally unloaded unless they're off the pavement. the inside wheels will have a little less weight than the outside wheels in a turn but they are nowhere near "totally unloaded". then the vehicle is not cornering at its limit, so having something that intervenes at this point is certainly not raising the handling limits of the vehicle. on a stock, squishy car like the vehicles discussed here, there is enough body roll, weight transfer, and suspension travel that at the limit there is little or no weight on the inside wheels. i think dsc/esc *may* improve the capabilities of certain drivers, but electronics can only compensate so much. it's main safety feature is that it applies the brakes so at least the vehicle will be going slower at the point of collision.
not sure if they have been posted. i personally like the 17s on the sel models better...looks like these alloys come straight off the edge.
no. my preference for my next new car is one that scores good/good/good on the iihs crash tests. none of those cars you listed do that as of now. but those 3 x good's are pretty rare, so i may have to give a little on that requirement. as far as the honda goes, i don't like certain aspects of it (mainly the feel-every-pebble ride) and it's too pricey in this class. i don't think the toyota is worth the price premium for what you get, and i'm not crazy about the styling. on the ford, i prefer the mercury, and i would seriously consider the mercury if i slip my crash test requirement. on the hyundai, i'd like to see what hyundai comes up with for the 2009 refresh. right now i prefer the kia over the hyundai, but the iihs side impact test for the kia hasn't been published yet.
the tranny never quit on me, but it started to display problematic tendancies at 42k. so i had it replaced with a brand new transmission assembly and it was warranted just like a new car purchase, from the date and mileage at install. so i was covered for another 36k, or in honda's case of covering problems out of warranty anyway, until 100k for all intent and purposes. it was an "updated" transmission assembly and had all the updates, and fixes already included. so the defect in the tranny was solved, and there is no worry for another 200k.
i judged only the 2002 or 2001 hyundai. i assume everyone will say that hyundai has improved significantly with their hyundai since then, but they were so far behind back then in 2002 that they better have improved, or they'd be out of business.
that's a remarkable account. does honda treat all of its customers that well or are you special? what's the rest of the story?
so realize you judged a car that was designed in the mid-'90s and debuted in the u.s. in 1998. yes, hyundai has come a long way since then. the current gen 4 hyundai is a much better car than the gen 3 hyundai.
yeah... that's a helpful and productive post. :sick:
well in a few years this will all be moot. there is no common denominator in dsc, it is how it is programmed, just like every other aspect of the car. of course, dsc limits cornering, but it also helps avoid spinouts. the dangerous trail you mention has been this way for many years as almost every one of the systems in the car are programmed, by programmers. what do you do sue, if a loved one gets into an accident and dies because they turned off dsc and dsc could have saved their life. do you sue the manufacturer for having an off switch?
actually there is no misconception, the sonota has the highest cost to repair in a front-end collision out of a number other competitors' vehicles.
of course, dsc limits cornering, but it also helps avoid spinouts. this is exactly my point, it makes the vehicle "safer" for most, poorly trained, inattentive drivers by lowering the overall limits of the vehicle. as i was reading grassroots motorsports (one of the greatest car rags ever) there was an article on young people involved in autocross and other entry level events of driving skill. in one of the editorials, the author pointed out that you don't "lose control of a car, you give it up." apparently, so many drivers are giving it up, we will now have a computer to take over.
ebay motors- honda honda, sorted by highest mileage, shows 18 cars with over 200,000 miles (excluding typos) out of 305 total for sale. another 32 cars are 150 to 199k. another 70 are between 100 and 149k. nearly 2 out of every 5 honda currently for sale on ebay have over 100,000 miles. that is right now. there is a 1991 honda for sale with 341k miles, which appears to run and drive well.
not a bad looking car. need to take the bottom chrome off the front though, and better tail pipe finsihers. other than that, a very nice offering by ford
it would be my luck to buy one of those ebay honda with 100,000 miles and have it implode at 100,001, right after i drove it away. i've owned many, many cars in my 49 years of driving but i've never owned one with 100,000 miles. my 2000 ford ford station wagon has 93,000 miles on it so it may be the first. that's one of the reasons why we bought a ford for our mid-size sedan, good results with the ford and with a 1997 ford thunderbird, 85,000 miles. even so, bender, your honda research was quite enlightening. it would seem at first blush that the honda take a lickin' and keep on tickin'.
it's just a 2008 ford, which is the same, appearance-wise, as the 2006 and 2007 ford. no styling changes. but the renderings for the 2009 reveal quite a few changes, including the loss of the bottom chrome bars and a new taillight setup. i believe fomoco is serious about becoming a stalwart competitor in the mid-size segment again, as is gm. chrysler doesn't seem to have a serious contender in this category.
in one of the editorials, the author pointed out that you don't "lose control of a car, you give it up." apparently, so many drivers are giving it up, we will now have a computer to take over. at the moment when the car is not going in the intended direction, it becomes a "loss" of control. even the most highly skilled racing car drivers "lose it" and you sir, can too. and could one day be saved by a "nanny".
if it's you and me on the road, and you give up control of your car, lawsuits and punitive damages (for you) are very expensive if you maim or kill me. not to mention possible criminal charges. i would think you would want a dsc type system to save your bacon on the road. but i could be wrong. anyway, in a few years it will become a moot point. if you buy a car after a certain point, you will have a dsc type system. get used to it. get a bmw to try out dsc, take a performance course at bmw spartanburg so you know how it really works.
ebay motors- honda honda, sorted by highest mileage, shows 18 cars with over 200,000 miles (excluding typos) out of 305 total for sale. another 32 cars are 150 to 199k. another 70 are between 100 and 149k. nearly 2 out of every 5 honda currently for sale on ebay have over 100,000 miles. that is right now. not sure what your point is? :confuse: if you look at my 2000-2007 for the honda and ford ford, which i assume the honda fans consider the ultimate unreliable car, both have 14 listed on ebay motors with over 100k miles. i used those years because the ford has only been out since 2000 and all of the over 200k honda you mention are from the 80s or early to mid 90s. i'm guessing you could find the same cross section of any brand or model on ebay motors. so are we to believe ebay motors is proof of the honda assumed reliability leadership? just asking. :shades: a quick check of the ford, all years this time, shows one for sale with over 200k miles and 63 more over 100k miles.
it would be my luck to buy one of those ebay honda with 100,000 miles and have it implode at 100,001, right after i drove it away sounds like you've bought off ebay before. :p seriously though, no way on gods green earth i go to ebay for a car. it no surprise over half the honda there are high milage. its not a testament to the honda durability, (and it is a very durable car) but rather a testimonial to the crap you find on ebay.
in one of the editorials, the author pointed out that you don't "lose control of a car, you give it up." apparently, so many drivers are giving it up, we will now have a computer to take over. at the moment when the car is not going in the intended direction, it becomes a "loss" of control. even the most highly skilled racing car drivers "lose it" and you sir, can too. and could one day be saved by a "nanny". i have to say, i totally disagree with that statement, and that is why so many people refer to it as a "loss of control." these are the same people that refer to crashes as accidents . there is a lack of personal accountability here, one doesn't lose control, they give up control, most often because they lack driving skill. this is an issue with people driving a vehicle beyond their skill level, at which point it would be more effective to activate the brakes on all 4 wheels. there may be times when the car will not follow exactly the wishes of the operator, but that doesn't mean or even imply that the driver has no control over the vehicle. suddenly, if they say "oh, it wasn't my fault, i lost control" that makes it all better.
ok, glad there is no misconception; i thought there might be based on your earlier posts in which you said the hyundai had the highest repair costs in its class (not true) and that these collision repair costs were somehow related to the cars' warranties (also not true). we are all copasetic now. :shades:
f it's you and me on the road, and you give up control of your car, lawsuits and punitive damages (for you) are very expensive if you maim or kill me. not to mention possible criminal charges. i would think you would want a dsc type system to save your bacon on the road. yes, exactly. if i give up control of my vehicle, i should be held liable for damages. oh wait, that is how it works now (if you live in a real state that has real insurance, unlike mi and this no-fault farce) and that is why people have insurance. so you are telling me if we all have this nanny on our car, we won't need insurance or lawyers anymore? hmm that might get me to change my mind.
there may be times when the car will not follow exactly the wishes of the operator , but that doesn't mean or even imply that the driver has no control over the vehicle. that my friend is a "loss" of control. if you don't have total control, you have lost some control. you may be able to regain control, but it may be too late. it seems these "electronic nannies" can improve lap times for f1 drivers, but obviously these guys can't hold a candle to your abilities. please. no matter how good a driver you think you are, you are human and can make mistakes. a "nanny" may save your life one day.
that my friend is a "loss" of control. if you don't have total control, you have lost some control. you may be able to regain control, but it may be too late. control isn't digital, its not something you have or you don't. in racing, there are many times when you cannot get the vehicle to do exactly what you want, either because of picking a bad line, carrying too much speed, another vehicle in the way, etc, but amazingly, the driver can keep the vehicle on the road and out of anyone else's fenders. there is no collision avoidance application in dsc. it lowers the limits of the vehicle to match the abilities of the driver. is a car with lower limits safer in the hands of the general public? probably. the original argument was if these systems would improve handling, and i think consensus is now that they won't, although they may improve safety. it seems these "electronic nannies" can improve lap times for f1 drivers, but obviously these guys can't hold a candle to your abilities. while i appreciate your acknowledgment of my incredible driving prowess, i would also like to point out that the systems used in f1 (since they are definitely applicable to mid-sized sedans) can vary suspension rates as well as pre-load the sway bars. that, my fellow honda loving friend, would improve handling. this is not such a new concept, citroen did it on their mid-sized sedan in the 60s, and a number of vehicles have used electronic systems to vary the amount of dampening. the systems being discussed currently will just brake. vehicles like the bmw 7-series (just for you kdshapiro) have electronically adjusted sway bars that can limit body roll and weight transfer. given the weight of the bmw is about 2x that of my honda, i think the car handles remarkably well, and this electronically adjusted suspension is a big part of it. will your $18k honda have the same system as the $100k bmw, i am gonna guess no, but i think i was wrong before once or something :p
yes, i would say you've been quite enlightened, as thinking 85,000 miles is a good experience, is a direct shame on the american car industry. that is setting the bar, way, way too low. good results for 85k and sold for good resale, or 85k and you met a repair bill worth more than the vehicle?
thats where you loose any pretense of objectivity andre, and why people think of you as a paid honda representative. j/k nobody here doubts that honda last long, hold up well, and suffer relatively few major problem. nobody really argues that. but to say domestic cars only last 85k is just nonsense, and everybody takes your opinions and post with a grain of salt. i've owned many a ford and a chevrolet or two that has gone far longer than that.
while i appreciate your acknowledgment of my incredible driving prowess, you obviously have an over-inflated view of your own driving abilities. highly skilled (and handsomely paid) drivers can "loose control" and hit the wall, but i guess they are all beneath your skill level. i bow to your greatness sir. why have i never heard of you? :confuse: is your last name montoya?
i was nothing special to honda, other than being a younger man up and coming in the world with a lot of future vehicle purchases in my lifetime to come. it was my first honda, that 2003 honda. i don't think it'll be my last, at least not my family's last as my wife has gotten two civics in a row, three if you count the used purchase of the 92 honda, (the 05 was totalled by some bad driver in a 2004 volkswagen). i would assume honda treats all of their customers at least as good as they did to me, but i was somewhat aggressive and demanding with my dealer. they can't say no if you don't ask. it's when they say no and you've asked politely that you should get mad and raise hell. looking back, i should have gotten a big sign and picketed the dodge dealer right in front of them on the sidewalk until they offered to pay for my ac repair and head gaskets, and auto tranny, and 15 other things. alas... i didn't take the time or think it might work, however i have a coworker that told me he picketed carmaxx in front of their sales lot, and after about day 5 doing it, everyday for all day, they caved in and bought back his 10 month old windstar sp?? ford for 100% of his purchase price. the only conditions they gave him for buying it back at full price were that he never shop or buy from carmax again
you obviously have an over-inflated view of your own driving abilities. highly skilled (and handsomely paid) drivers can "loose control" and hit the wall, but i guess they are all beneath your skill level. i bow to your greatness sir. why have i never heard of you? is your last name montoya? you have never heard of me because my name isn't in the papers because i don't hit the wall. :p okay okay, i am taking this less seriously than you, i apologize. my point is that dsc as it applies to relatively inexpensive mid-sized kid-hauling grocery getters is not going to increase the handling capabilities of the vehicle. it is going to lower them. are lower handling limits safer for most drivers? probably. is having a "nanny" react because the driver gave up going to help? probably. would actually teaching people how to drive help? probably.
a quick check of the ford, all years this time, shows one for sale with over 200k miles lol. and 1 single lone ford over 200k miles for sale is equivalent to the 18, count them, eightteen honda with over 200k miles for sale how? actually, there are 15 on autotrader right now...maybe they don't put the tauri on ebay because they can still retail them, while the high mileage honda like mine are craigslist or ebay only.
it was my first honda, that 2003 honda. i don't think it'll be my last, at least not my family's last as my wife has gotten two civics in a row, three if you count the used purchase of the 92 honda, (the 05 was totalled by some bad driver in a 2004 volkswagen). hmm 2004 jettas had stability control...
this was once a comparison of sedans. now it seems to be a comparison of 15 year old brand reliability and stability control chat. what happened to comparisons of the new nissan and toyota, ford and saturn, et al? :confuse:
even if every driver was as highly skilled as lilengineerboy , esc would still be a good idea, imo.
unfortunately, there's not much "meat" to the forum anymore.
new midsize cars only, or am i welcome to discuss the finer points of the early 90's honda and toyota's?
i'm not sure (that's the host's call). it just seemed like a lot more people would look here to compare the current vehicles, since cars like the early 90s honda weren't even midsize cars. i'm not the forum police though, and you may certainly take any and everything i say with a grain of salt.
good results for 85k and sold for good resale, or 85k and you met a repair bill worth more than the vehicle? neither, actually. we still own and drive the 85k t-bird and the 92k ford in addition to owning a 2007 sel awd ford with 3,700 miles.
i have got to say that i really like the new honda sedan. from what i've seen so far, it's probably the boldest honda sedan since the 1986 "flip up" lights honda. it's good to finally see a real grille on the car for once. and i'm particularlly fond of the side profile with it's chrome accents. i'm finally glad to be able to say i find the honda as attractive as the nissan and mazda and that it doesn't look nearly as horrific (forgive me current honda owners) as the 03-05 models (06-07 look a little better than 03-05s imo) can't wait to see pics of the interior and offical photos from honda.
i know it's just an 06-07 type model. it's the 2008 apperance pkg model with the 18 inch wheels. i think i saw a post here (or somewhere) asking if anyone had seen the new alloy wheels that will be offered with that package and since i saw the pics, i thought i'd post them.
funny you should pick ford to point out how poor domestics are. directly prior to purchasing the 95 stratus from my daughter we owned about, lets see, 7 ford/sables from 1986 to 1988 model years. all bought used. the longest lived was the 1987 wagon sold two years ago this thanksgiving. it had 293,435 miles when sold and i still see it occasionally on the road around town. yes, it did have a reman. transmission installed @ around 190k miles. yes i did repair/replace things on it in the 13 years i owned it (from 132k miles to 293k miles). the next was a 1987 chrysler sedan that was sold to a friends son @ about 190k miles. it never had the transmission replaced up to the point he was rear-ended at around 200k miles thus ending the cars useful life. the last higher mileage was a 1986 sable wagon that went to 150k miles. original transmission replaced @132k miles...salvage yard replacement lost reliable od and was not remaining in it when sold. all had the "vulcan" v-6 and none required any engine work (except water pumps, alternators etc) and none used oil or ran poorly regardless of mileage. i spent $$ on most of them for mostly normal repairs. some had odd things go wrong and some (one comes to mind) was a money pit that vexed me until i repaired/replaced almost all electrical items e.g. power window motors..pwr. lock actuators...ac problems...auto climate control etc. but ran flawlessly otherwise.
every time i see this: i think this: with some of this: i want to see it in person first. i thought the nissan looked terrible in the "early" photos but i really like the way it looks in person (and the coupe looks great). honda usually doesn't go too crazy so i want to see it in person before i make a judgment.
lol. and 1 single lone ford over 200k miles for sale is equivalent to the 18, count them, eightteen honda with over 200k miles for sale how? once again, missing the point and spinning it around to favor your favorite car. listings on ebay, autotrader, or whatever are not ways to measure reliability or durability. once those 200k+ honda sell you may see more tauruses with 200k+ miles listed. should i call usa today so they can start printing the story now? :sick:
i have been noting my perceptions on a 2007 ford "s" 4 cylinder 5 speed automatic. originally i was comparing it to a 2006.5 kia kia since i almost literally jumped out of the kia into the ford. now as i have driven the ford more and on a weekly repeated trip of a little over 300 miles i will say more. 1. the initial observation of a noisy engine (induction noise as opposed to mechanical clanks) remains. it also has, i believe, raspy exhaust but i can't hear much over the engine. 2. after driving in the allegheny mountains i confirm initial observations of sluggish acceleration/ and or slow speeds up those mountains with the same four adults (less luggage) as was in the kia last week. the kia fairly flew up those same mountains and remained in at least 4th gear whereas the ford needed a downshift to 3rd to maintain speed once gained ( and that seemed to be more of a struggle). 3. i find i dislike even more the high rear package shelf/trunk as time passes. sometimes when i crest a hill the car behind me is momentarily lost from sight as the rear rises on the downside of the hill. additionally backing into a parking stall is difficult when you cannot see "behind" well. 4. the car feels larger than it probably is..upright and tall like a ford crossover suv. it feels solid (5k miles however) rides firmly and corners and tracks pretty well also. 5. now for fuel economy. 345 miles @ 13 gallons = 26.538 mpg. this was unlike the trip using the kia so i won't directly compare to it but it was typical of a week-end trip using our 1995 dodge stratus...same terrain, same route, same speeds, same load (4 adults no luggage). the stratus for those who do not know has 187,500+ miles a 4 speed auto 2.5 liter v-6 (164 hp) which compares favorably with the 4 cylinder/5 speed auto ford. the stratus generally gets the same/similar or a bit more mpg on these trips (around 27.3- sometimes as much as 28 mpg). i have used it week in and week out for more than a year on this same exact trip so i have more experience with it but i am not really impressed with the ford so far. a hyundai hyundai 4 cylinder/4 speed auto (2006) rented for the same trip a few months ago got (as i recall) about 29.something mpg. i don't know that the v-6 ford would do any worse on this type drive. if you factor in the apparent laboring engine of the 4 cyl. in the mountains and additional gear (6 speed auto). i have never driven the v-6 model but since i have this trip every week i might strongly consider it over the 4 if i were to buy a ford/mercury. conversely since i am considering a hyundai i wonder (after having rented both 4 and v-6) if i really, really need the 6. the 4 cylinder in that car and the kia is perfectly satisfactory..quick even..on my typical weekly trip..mountains included and seems to get better fuel economy (even the v-6 hyundai got about 29 mpg)!
listings on ebay, autotrader, or whatever are not ways to measure reliability or durability. but i think they do provide some indication as to how common getting to 300k miles is...and all indications are 300k mi is not common at all, on any car. which i think is something that most rational people already realized .
c'mon, folks. several of your fellow members have urged on-topic conversation. it's not hard - the clue is in the discussion title.
so far, i've been seeing 28 mpg honda / 34 mpg highway in the honda, average of 30, without even trying to maximize economy (quick starts and heel-toe downshifts in the honda, and 70-80 mph highway). after reading an article on msn about "hypermiling" (using various methods to greatly increase economy), i'm going to use this tank of gas to test some of the theories. most of it is common sense, i.e. avoiding quick starts and excessive idling while stopped, no more than 5 mph over speedlimit or 55 mph, etc. also, not giving it any more gas on hills, just keeping the throttle open to the same amount as on flat ground, and letting speed fall some. some of it has surprised me... the last mile of my commute home, if i slip into neutral at a certain point, i'll only have to give it five short pulls from 2,000-2,500 rpms to get into my driveway. the rest of the time i am coasting along just fine at idle in netural. it is also surprising to me how keeping the revs down below 2,500 makes acceleration seem excruciatingly slow to me, yet none of the other traffic seems to mind at all. i don't get passed by many people, and still leave some people behind. a few of the theories are pretty wild, such as shutting of the engine at stoplights and on long downhills, drafting 18-wheelers, etc. i won't be going crazy here, just trying some of the easy stuff for one tank of gas, at least 80% honda, to see how much of a difference it makes. has anybody already tried anything like this? what do you guys think, will it make any difference and if so, will it be worth it? i think i'll see some substantial gains with the coasting. also, the honda is the perfect car to try this with, as i can keep the vtec on the "economy" profile.
i am considering a hyundai i wonder (after having rented both 4 and v-6) if i really, really need the 6 can't speak on the hyundai 4 cyl, but the honda 4 cyl is a strong, peppy, marvelous piece of machinery which is hard to beat.
has anybody already tried anything like this? what do you guys think, will it make any difference and if so, will it be worth it? i would guess you're late to work every day.
it's set up for hybrids, but you might check out our hypermiling discussion.
i, for one think much of this has become a "game" for the participants. not so much in managing fuel economy as bragging rights. also, most of their moves seem downright dangerous to me. i would not attempt most of the things they do....not worth my life for whatever fuel economy gained. oh, coasting seems harmless enough but what if a powered move becomes necessary? by the time one realizes they are in neutral and remembers to engage drive the need for the powered move has passed..to what harm?? not for me!
so far, i've been seeing 28 mpg honda / 34 mpg highway in the honda, average of 30, without even trying to maximize economy (quick starts and heel-toe downshifts in the honda, and 70-80 mph highway). every time i read a mileage report i get nauseous. that's because no matter what we do our 2007 sel awd v6 ford only yields a constant 14.8 in all-honda driving after seven months and 3,700 miles. the revised epa estimate (always optimistic) for this power train is 17 mpg honda; 24 mpg highway. we did take one 360-mile trip with this car and it averaged 26 mpg going and 24 mpg returning driving 65-75 mph. technicians at our dealership checked the car over with a computer at 1,500 miles and said everything was according to specifications; they found nothing to be "wrong." our terrain is flat. the climate is moderate (air conditioner now in use all the time). the tires are slightly over inflated to 35 psi. my wife and i are conservative, gentle drivers. every visit to a gasoline station, every two weeks, makes me cringe and causes me to wish we had purchased the i4 with either the automatic or a five-speed manual. the fill-up experience occasionally makes me wish we had bought an honda, too. we like most everything about the ford, except for the crummy mileage. i have nicknamed the car "the guzzler," because of its poor mileage.
since i am now driving a rental 2007 "s" model 4 cylinder/5 speed auto ford for an undetermined length of time it would pay you to read (and heed maybe?)some of those observations i am posting. first, and maybe foremost to you would be the excessive engine noise followed closely by fuel economy which at 26.5 highway is unremarkable among similar sized 4 cylinder (and some v-6) competition. this week i will be driving around town and to/from work (small honda chevrolet driving) where the stratus routinely gets 22-23 mpg. i'll post what the ford gets under those same conditions. you state you had wished you had purchased the 4 instead..as i have frequently been told "watch what you wish for." the 4 cylinder version seems to me to be sub-par as compared to both the hyundai hyundai and kia kia in some categories (noise,standard features and fuel economy at least)...undoubtedly, as many will chime in, to the honda/toyota 4's as well. i have no real axe to grind against ford either..just calls 'em as i see 'em.
listings on ebay, autotrader, or whatever are not ways to measure reliability or durability. once those 200k+ honda sell you may see more tauruses with 200k+ miles listed. should i call usa today so they can start printing the story now? exactly, baggs. it's just as scientific as deciding which is the best car from 40 consumer reviews at the top of the page. "well, car x is rated 9.2, and i like it a lot, but car y is rated 9.4, so i guess i'll buy that one. it's clearly the best car." that would be a pretty proposterous proposition(pardon the allitteration!) the ford, while not exactly competitive in its last few years, did prove to be of at least average reliability by many accounts. seems like if i were choosing a domestic to be a bad example of reliability, i would've gone with a 90s chrysler anyway! :p
i found this on another forum. i don't know the source. june 2007 retail sales (excluding fleet sales). 43,000 toyota vs only 9,100 ford! 1.toyota 43039 2.honda 27498 3.nissan 21681 4.chevrolet 16526 5.hyundai 10917 6.ford 9102 7.pontiac 6949 8.subaru 6269 9.chrysler 3740 10.saturn 3581 11.volkswagen 3249 12.chevrolet 3243 13.mazda 2185 14.mercury 2144 15.mitsubishi 1954 16.dodge 1701 17.kia 1466
we've seen the interior of the ford flex and speculated that the '09 ford will get something similar. i have to beg to differ now though. seems to me it will get something more along the lines of the '08 ford and ford interior. see the pic below and note that you can opt for a navigation system in the ford or the sync in the ford, both of which replace the standard radio controls with a 9 inch touch screen unit. the dual zone climate control readouts are in the screen on top of the dash. it's actuall kind of nice when you see it all lit up with the temps and such. multicolored and different fonts/sizes to help with interpretation. 2008 ford ford interior. ford with navigation.
the ford interior looks very mazda with the display at the top of the center stack instead of with the radio. from a usability standpoint, it makes sense because the display is much closer to the road so in theory it should result in less eyes-off-road time. the downside is when you separate controls from their displays, there are mapping issues and those might be even more prevalent with sync and its capabilities. i think they just expect the driver to use the steering wheel controls.
not necessarily. the ford and ford interiors were done prior to fields taking over and from what the insiders tell us the flex interior is closer to what we'll see on the 09 ford (with adjustments for cars vs. cuv, etc.). remember the flex will hit the streets next summer before the 09 ford.
i'm surprised at your low highway mpg. i averaged about 32 mpg in automatic mazda i4, which is the same engine. this was over a 1600 mile round trip at about 72-77 mph most of the time and a/c on part of the time. i've been getting 23-25 mpg in my normal chevrolet commute...speed on my route varies from about 30 to 60 mph with an average speed around 40-45 mph. there are quite few stop lights but no congestion. i think the i4 sounds great, at least in the mazda variation. i don't feel there is excessive engine noise at all. i could do with somewhat less tire noise than the mazda has on some pavement, though.
the nissan was at 25,935, and the honda was at 28,900 (surprisingly, down 14%), the toyota was at 46,630, and the ford was 12,425. also down from last year. the two that are really surprising are the nissan and toyota. even though ford and honda sales were down from last year, both companies saw solid growth in their compact cars, (both ford and honda were way up)which probably explains the drop. but corrola and nissan sales were also up significantly.
in this era of $4 gas, pretty much all mfgrs. of smaller/economical sedans should see increases. the nissan has been a solid #3 for some time now and is further reinforced by its update, the honda is an outgoing design and should be 'suffering' at least until its redesign, while the toyota is well, the toyota.
i think the nissan was the most striking, sales figure wise. the toyota growth can be attributed to the hybrid version. but the nissan saw a 77% increase from june 2006. they didn't sell enough coupe's to attribute it to that. and actually, that was the fist decline in the honda in a long time. have the rebates stopped or something? seems they were keeping the sales going strong for most of this year.
well, as i said since this was the first time driving the ford on this particular trip. and i can't comment on an extended drive as yours that probably included a lot longer time at cruise speed on an interstate/turnpike. i can, however, equate this car to others including my own (the 95 stratus and a 2006 honda) on this re-occurring trip that follows the same route..speed (more or less) and load week in and week out. i was somewhat surprised by the fuel economy but i knew about what was coming by the amount of fuel left (per the dash gage)upon return home. also, i don't really know what ford was thinking leaving the amount of induction noise intact when designing this. i have not encountered this much noise on a new car...ever! yeah, there is muted intake/induction noise on other brands but this seems to have been left intact to simulate "sportiness?" maybe. it really is unrelenting unless you absolutely are on cruise with no additional acceleration needed. but, accelerate for any reason and it becomes evident again. this may be pleasing to some but it is annoying when it drowns out the radio (low volume to be sure).
as an addendum i have researched the hp/torque figures on both the stratus 2.5 v-6 and the 2007 ford 2.3 i4. as follows: 1.) 2.5 stratus v-6. 164 hp 163 lb./ft.torque. 2.) 2.3 i4 ford 160 hp 156 lb./ft. torque. 3.) stratus weight...approx. 3180 lb. 4.) ford weight..unknown at this point but possibly something very similar.
ford weight..unknown at this point but possibly something very similar. yep, it is 3101 pounds with manual, according to edmunds, then add about 75 pounds for the automatic and it is right there with the stratus. 75 pounds is the added weight for automatic, based on mazda brochure i have.
while this car isn't within this size class (and therefore not to be dissused here) i think this is interesting. i had occasion to rent a 2006 chevrolet chevrolet to make "the trip" about a month ago. it had the base 3.5 liter v-6 and 4 speed auto. at the end of "the trip" the fuel economy readout said....29.4 mpg. i believe this to be due,in very large part,to the gearing..approx 1600 rpm @ 72 mph.
ford has suffered on fuel economy because bill ford's mandate for the last several years has been emissions. ford has a v6 ford that puts out less emissions than a toyota, yet they never advertised it and the public never seemed to care. i always thought that was the wrong ford but it seemed to be a personal thing with billy. now the gloves are off and we've seen a hint with the new ford having a mileage increase while adding 60 hp with the new 3.5l engine. i expect mpg increases across the board for all the new stuff starting with the 09 models.
oh, coasting seems harmless enough but what if a powered move becomes necessary? by the time one realizes they are in neutral and remembers to engage drive the need for the powered move has passed..to what harm?? not for me! it's a manual, i wouldn't shift an automatic into neutral while cruising. my last automatic... if i was cruising along in gear and decided i needed to make a "powered move" and punched it, i would get... nothing. the car would hesitate for a moment as if to say, are you serious? then, the revs would fall as it shifted out of the gear it was in and worked its way down... when it found the gear it wanted, wham! the revs would shoot way back up, and acceleration would begin. even if i forget i'm in neutral, i can shift into gear and get going as quick as an average slushbox can react to your right foot.
in a perhaps more controlled test, epa has 29 mpg highway for the ford i4 and 28 for the 3.5l chevrolet. so they are close on the highway. difference is only 2 mpg in the epa honda test. also, i beleive in contrast to your results...in the march 2006 issue cr measured 32 mpg highway for the i4 ford (mercury, actually) and the hyundai 4 cyl was measured at 33 mpg highway in that same issue.
in my v6 honda. and i drive with a lead foot and at 80 mph when i can and traffic will allow me to. also i drive in heavy traffic often. on long trips i'd easily hit the epa estimate of 30 highway at 80 mph.
yeah, you know the often used phrase..."results may vary" is true. i try to maintain 72 mph on the pa turnpike on all the cars i travel in, rented or not. then on the more rural stretches of 2 lane in bedford and somerset county pa. i am constantly aware of the deer population even during the daylight. this past trip we saw 3 doe with 4 fawn in the middle of the afternoon. at night things get worse + bear + bobcat so all kinds of wildlife is around. i hit two deer last fall so i am especially aware with a rental. as a result i drive moderately especially at night. it would be safe to say my driving is about as sedate as possible off the turnpike. so fuel economy should be at its best as far as speed is concerned..but factor in the mountainous stretches and economy falls to some degree or another.
..but factor in the mountainous stretches and economy falls to some degree or another. we traversed the pa tp (worst road in the world i say) from pittsburgh to subaru two weeks ago in our '06 ford. just under 22 mpg for the trip which was 95% highway, 70-75 mph, a/c on all the way, and cc on most of the way. i thought that was pretty darn good. now we're back to 13 mpg for our 90% honda commute where you have to start from full rest on long steep hills. i think that's where mileage suffers, not on highway hills.
nissan recall uh oh, not good for nissan.
uh oh, not good for nissan. replace the air filter and add a screen. i'd say that is a very minor recall. not even close to "sludged engines" or breaking camshafts or having to replace engine coils.
yea, a $6 air filter isn't really that big a deal. every car gets recalled for something. this is about as minor as it gets
apparently, cars with the 2.5-liter four-cylinder have an air filter that can cause some serious problems. it seems that if something hot is sucked into the filter, like ashes from a cigarette, it can catch on fire . four incidents have already been reported to nissan. uh, yeah, replacing an air filter is no biggie but the reason behind that isn't so "minor" as it seems.
1/10th as much as a single problem that isn't admitted to across the board. i know from reading msn's user reviews that everyone had the same problems i did with their domestic, (well, okay, not all, but many). dodge never admitted to any wrong doing or recalls. what a sham!
its still minor. so far, .003% of the cars sold have had a problem. deffinitly not minor if you one of those 4 people, but for the 139,996 whose car's didn't suck something hot up the air intake and cause the air filter to catch fire, not that big a deal. no worse than the 165,000 honda that were recalled in march because of an engine problem.
sounds trivial to me. i can't recall the last time i drove through flames or burning embers. the closest i came was 18 years ago a foreign car pulled out to pass in front on my on way home with wife from day surgery at hospital. apparently he gunned it or something as he changed lanes in front of me (i was in left lane). it blew up as he pulled into my lane spraying engine parts and oil and coolant all over my car. pieces looked like rods. but no flames. next time, who knows.
my thoughts exactly. even the rear of the new honda is similar to the saturn l-series. having disliked the current honda, i had high hopes for the 2008 model. unfortunately, i the new design is among my least favorite of the midsize segment. i hope that it looks better in person.
i've owned many, many cars in my 49 years of driving but i've never owned one with 100,000 miles. *** meh. my 1975 volvo 164e? 230k. my 1990 volvo 240? 270k. my toyota 4-runner?(currently running) 345k and still going. 4 cylinder toyota are as close to indestructible as it gets. oh - and i had a couple of buick at 150k+ before i got rid of them.
what year , make and model had that unresponsive slushbox tranny? my '05 hyundai with automatic tranny is responsive. i haven't driven the latest generation hyundai, but my brother says his '07 hyundai se has plenty of juice at any speed.
lead foot doesn't mean dink if you are on highway run. once you've attained the speed it doesn't take much to maintain the speed. a long steep hill will affect it some, but nothing like accelerating from 0 to 60, regardless of how easy or hard one is on the gas.
on my last longish trip going through very hilly parts and going 85 most of the way, i got 28 mpg so getting 30 mpg in an honda shouldn't be considered that big of a deal.
so, with 20,000 miles and after driving it for 18 months, my car is worth more than what i paid for it (using their suggested retail price)!!! and private party value is about $2200 less than what i paid for it. some were saying resale value is mostly dependent on what car you buy...i would suggest that this piece of information indicates that price paid is a bigger factor. so when a car can be had at a great price (i've heard of mazda's selling new for $6k+ below msrp), resale value as a percentage of price paid will be much better than brands who charge a premium for their product. but i should mention that this info is not too important...i plan on keeping this car for quite a while since i really enjoy driving it. for my tastes, it's still the best mix of practicality, attractiveness, performance, safety, and value in this segment.
why wouldn't somebody just buy a new one like you did and get the better price? i wouldn't put a whole lot of anything into kbb or nada etc. your car is worth what someone will pay you, and that could be a lot less than you think.
so getting 30 mpg in an honda shouldn't be considered that big of a deal. i get at least 30 around town in my 06 i4 honda with a manual. i've only had a couple of tanks of gas that got 29. highway is always well above epa.
you assume that buyers are logical and know how or are willing to do even basic research. a friend of mine who just bought a used nissan spent about as much as a person who could have gotten a new one with more than just 600 miles left on his warranty. why? who knows... but probably he saw the car and justified in his mind that buying used was saving him a lot of money when it wasn't. of course, i didn't have the heart to tell him that he paid too much, but it just goes to show there are a lot of buyers of used cars who don't pay a lot of attention to the prices of new ones. all they see is the big difference between msrp and what kbb says and think they are saving a lot. i'm not saying it's fair that i could sell my 18 month car with only a 10% reduction in price (using kbb's private party value for my car), but that's the way they price it and i'm surely not compaining. but if i were to go back on the market to look for another car that could take the twisties like a mazda and could also hold a coffee table fully assembled in the back and look good doing it, i'd be buying another mazda.
i've had three midsizers over 100,000 miles, a 1991 mazda 626 dx manual, a 1990 honda ex automatic, and a 1998 mazda 626 es-v6 manual. (actual photos below- better pics and more interior pics coming) see more car pictures at carspace.com see more car pictures at carspace.com see more car pictures at carspace.com
i think the only car in the fleet that didn't do well over 100k was the '83 reliant. if the caravan hadn't been exactly the right vehicle at the right time, i think chrysler would've been off the list. that said, that minivan was fantastic in every way including reliability and durability. everything else was somewhere between 140 and 190k.
boy, that sure is a lot of motoring. apparently you hold onto your cars for quite awhile, too. that's one way to get your money's worth.
exactly, car resale values whether it be through a dealer or private party will always be related to what a new version costs on late model cars, and the reason why those values tend to plummet when a particular vehicle starts being rebated and/or sold with bought down finance rates. the kbbs and nadas of the world have a tough time with current real dollar values esp. at the point that the mfgr has to offer those rebates and other 'deals' to clear their inventories. the only time that i've seen a car 'appreciate' after purchase is when it is hard-to-get and/or in very high demand (the toyota and the mini come to mind) exactly the opposite of the situation with have with any of the cars in this group (to varying degrees).
i don't think the '09 ford was before fields though and it has an ford/ford like interior in this spy shot.
boy that is one ugly dash, don't care what it is from. :sick:
actually it was done bf (before fields). he took one look at it and sent the designers back to the drawing boards - for sheetmetal changes. i don't think they changed the interior.
they may want to rethink that then or at least do what gm does and offer two interiors. iirc one of the comments i read made the point that work gloves won't be able to push those tiny buttons. that person is very right.
it's possible they're changing the interior, too. then again - this is the ford, not the superduty.
i just think its funny that you guys (not necessarily you captain) keep talking about cost of ownership, which uses kbb #'s for depreciation, and saying how an honda is so much better, but then when i show you that my mazda has very little depreciation from what i paid for it you then say that kbb is not credible. so which is it guys?!?! you guys should do the budget for united states...all smoke and mirrors.
these numbers come from another forum. i am not aware of the source. believe these are figures for june. check out these % retail figures. nearly 80% fleet sales for the dodge and a dismal 63.5% fleet for the chrysler. make model - total sales / retail sales / retail % / incentive honda honda - 28,915 / 27,498 / 95.1% / $0 toyota toyota - 46,630 / 43,039 / 92.3% / $0 volkswagen volkswagen - 3,563 / 3,249 / 91.2% / $750 subaru subaru - 7,420 / 6,269 / 84.5% / $1,000 nissan nissan - 25,935 / 21,681 / 83.6% / $500 mercury mercury - 2,764 / 2,144 / 77.6% / $1,000 saturn saturn - 4,694 / 3,581 / 76.3% / $1,000 ford ford - 12,435 / 9,102 / 73.2% / $1,000 hyundai hyundai - 15,080 / 10,917 / 72.4% / $2,000 mitsubishi mitsubishi - 3,026 / 1,954 / 64.6% / $4,000 pontiac pontiac - 10,892 / 6,949 / 63.8% / $1,250 mazda 6 - 3,814 / 2,185 / 57.3% / $3,750 kia kia - 3,106 / 1,466 / 47.2% / $2,650 chevrolet chevrolet - 35,849 / 16,526 / 46.1% / $1,500 chevrolet chevrolet - 7,872 / 3,243 / 41.2% / $1,250 chrysler chrysler - 10,249 / 3,740 / 36.5% / $1,000 dodge dodge - 8,261 / 1,701 / 20.6% / $0
the host of these forums (edmunds.com) is projecting that my mazda will hold it's own vs. the honda in the depreciation category, too. 2007 mazda sport value edition (2.3l 4cyl 5a), which i bought for $16,200 has the following expected resale value according to edmunds: year 1: $15,406 year 2: $13,469 year 3: $11,765 year 4: $10,254 year 5: $8,898 for the comparable 2007 honda honda special edition 4dr sedan (2.4l 4cyl 5a), which i believe would have cost me at least $3000 more than the 6 (ie. $19,200, or more) they have expected resale value: year 1: $17,240 year 2: $14,978 year 3: $12,989 year 4: $11,225 year 5: $9,642 so the honda is predicted to have a higher resale value, but not nerly enough to make up for the higher initial price. in my case i'll likely keep my car for more than 10 years, so it does not really matter, anyway. but even after only 3 years, the difference is about $1000. i think there are very few people who did not save well over $1000 by buying a mazda instead of a comparably equipped honda.
one note on fleet sales - you really need an entire year's worth of data since rental fleet sales especially tend to go in cycles and are not evenly distributed through the year. it is interesting data nonetheless.
good point, allen.
the only midsizers with significant reviews (over 100) on edmunds with a score over 9.0 out of 10 leaves you with only two choices: the overpriced saturn or the bargain basement (right now) 2007 honda
what is that box thing on the top with the red thing that looks like a plunger? ("box thing, "red thing" and "plunger" are, of course, technical terms. )
what is that box thing on the top with the red thing that looks like a plunger? ford and other mfrs tend to have big red plunger looking things in their test mules. i have no idea what they are really for but i'm guessing that they are some sort of kill switch in case something goes terribly, terribly wrong. :surprise: you would think it would do something cool like explode spy photographer's cameras or something but obviously it doesn't.
maybe it causes smoke bombs to go off to give a screen for the car to ford the papparazi's cameras.
( on midsized sedans) assuming a properly installed factory option...... i'm getting a lot of conflicting information.
i would think it would improve mpg over no deflector with the sunroof open and reduce mpg over no deflector with the sunroof closed. the desirability is that it can reduce wind buffeting while still allowing additional ventilation.
wrong. a lot of the ratings have been refreshed for the 2008my, thus you see few number of reviews for many cars listed here. for 2007, a good amount were over 9.0 and at least 100 reviews. fyi - these reviews represent a tiny sample of the population.
yep - it cuts all power to the car instantly to avoid damage. it's rarely used but i guess it would only take one time to make it worthwhile.
there sure seems to be a correlation between those cars that hold value well (and those mfgrs. having some financial problems) vs. % fleet sales, isn't there?
oh okay - my naivete. never heard of that. it reminded me of those cartoon plunger tnt things (was that wyle e. coyote who was always doing that? am i telling on my age?? ) so i started to wonder if it would blow up the car itself, but i was afraid someone might think that was a partisan comment, which it wouldn't have been, so i didn't. :p
it cuts all power to the car instantly to avoid damage ahh yes, a stability control system
edmunds hasn't caught up with the effects of that absurd 4 grand rebate yet (and 5 years from now). but you are right about one thing, if you are one of those few people that keep a car for 10 years, the more rebate (and the cheaper) the better.
the only midsizers with significant reviews (over 100) on edmunds with a score over 9.0 out of 10 leaves you with only two choices: the overpriced saturn or the bargain basement (right now) 2007 honda or you can test drive these cars and buy what you like and form your own opinions instead of being herded around like a sheep. baaaahhh!!!
thank you captain obvious. why do you think gm and ford are cutting back on daily rental fleet sales (gm still has a ways to go but ford is getting there). one thing to remember is that fleet contracts are usually for a specific number of units done months in advance. so if a vehicle's retail sales volume falls from the previous year then the percentage of fleet sales will go up even though the actual number never changed from what was projected.
your previous point about monthly numbers being a 'snapshot' is likely right on - think a good portion of these fleet sales has to do with overproduction and inventory levels as well as 'slow' retail sales. so therefore, these percentages should go up and down except in those cases where the mfgr. (by policy) doesn't get involved too much in fleet sales. the unfortunate is that for some of these mfgrs., cutting production to match sales is easier said than done.
i put 332,300 miles on my '03 hyundai. before that, i put 200,000 on my caddy sedan deville, before that, 264,000 on my crown vic, before that, 250,000 on my volvo wagon, before that 224,000 on an escort, before that, 298,000 on another escort, currently have 68,000 on my 07 hyundai since mid november...there were many more cars but i won't list them now...now that's some motoring. :shades:
actually, 18 months ago, i had 4k worth of rebates so mazda incentives have been around for quite a while. the fact that these rebates despite being around for many many months aren't reducing the resale in kelly blue book suggests that a heavily discounted car can help protect a buyer from really bad resale values. either that or a mazda is like wine...it gets better with age :p or perhaps it speaks to how boring most of the midsize cars have become. i think i'll stick with my original theory... those who have decided to buy a used car don't usually do a lot of research as to what kind of discounts were available when the car was originally bought. i know many people who have bought used cars that were just a couple thousand of what they could have gotten new with much lower interest rates and a longer warranty. granted, these are a saleperson's dream, but being in sales for quite some time, i know that most consumers are not very well researched and if you try to help them get informed their eyes glaze over. which is probably why a manufacturer's reputation plays such a big role when it comes to buying cars despite the truth that the reliability between manufacturers differ by only a couple percent over five year periods for most cars in this segment according to consumer reports and jd powers.
i put 332,300 miles on my '03 hyundai. before that, i put 200,000 on my caddy sedan deville, before that, 264,000 on my crown vic, before that, 250,000 on my volvo wagon, before that 224,000 on an escort, before that, 298,000 on another escort, currently have 68,000 on my 07 hyundai since mid november...there were many more cars but i won't list them now...now that's some motoring. holy mackerel, you aren't kidding. i can't imagine owning a car in the 3s, and i've had cars in the 2s already. that is some motoring.
i, for one think much of this has become a "game" for the participants. not so much in managing fuel economy as bragging rights. also, most of their moves seem downright dangerous to me. i would not attempt most of the things they do....not worth my life for whatever fuel economy gained. oh, coasting seems harmless enough but what if a powered move becomes necessary? by the time one realizes they are in neutral and remembers to engage drive the need for the powered move has passed..to what harm?? not for me! target, i made a short video to show the techniques i'm using to test the max fuel economy of my new honda (basically slow accelerations with 2500 rpm max, letting speed drop on hills, and a lot of coasting). as you'll see, they aren't really dangerous. i'm keeping up with the slow lane of traffic most of the time. watch how when i coast, the cars next to me keep going only to have to slam on their brakes shortly after to reduce speed down to the limit or to stop. i this true "hypermiling"? maybe. will i see results that are worth the effort? i don't know. is driving like this fun? not really. will my next video be more exciting? i hope so! the video also shows how smooth and quiet the car is, for those who don't care about fuel economy. turn up the volume and you can hear the turn signal and barely hear the engine. maybe when i've burned this tank of gas and thus finished this little experiment, i'll make a video of a full acceleration run so everyone hear can see and hear that experience. link to video on carspace
those who have decided to buy a used car don't usually do a lot of research as to what kind of discounts were available when the car was originally bought this may be true depending on the acumen of the buyer - but also it is true that the vast majority of later model cars are traded in or sold to dealers not sold 'private party' and certainly not at anything close to kbb 'retail'. those folks will know precisely what you or anybody else likely paid for a car - it is their business to know, and they will base anything they would pay for your car based on that. rebates do, in fact, reduce any car's resale values as well as its initial cost. even sold private party, banks have things called 'loan values' that would protect them from loaning too much, so therefore, the chances are that even if you can find somebody to pay a few thousand more than what your car is really worth, the guys with the checkbook are not likely to go along with it. the whole concept of ever getting even close to what you paid for an 18 month old car that is not in high demand anyway , just doesn't happen! but you are welcome to believe your kbb/edmunds/nada 'retail' values if you wish, or you can fall prey to that oldest trick in the book, and let the dealer sooth you with a high trade-in allowance on an overpriced newer car.
since you're such an expert on car resale values i'll just call you :surprise: . do you think kelly blue book gives prices that would make the reader happy? and who do you think actually buys kelly blue books? since dealers would be their biggest group of customers, wouldn't kelly blue book be more inclined to print values that are more favorable to them? the point is, kelly blue book is often used as a referrence by buyers, banks, and dealers not because it is often wrong...but because it gives a good guide as to what the market will bear. the biggest thing is, you don't know what i paid for my car nor the discount i got on it. if you are assuming that i just got the 4k rebates and that's it, you'd be wrong. so my argument still stands... if you get a good deal on a car, that will help make depreciation much less of an issue (though to be sure, buying a new car should never be considered an investment). losing 10% in value (based on private party value by kbb) for a mazda that i bought 18 months ago and have put 20k miles on it is amazing which is probably why you're doubting this. but believe it or not, mazda's can be had for amazing deals which is probably why the #'s are what they are. in the end though, i like my car way too much to sell it even if the resale value is awesome. it's just another thing to be happy about my mazda.
the resale value is awesome mazda, in particular, have no history of 'awesome' resale values although i believe that they will generally hold better than essentially the same car with a ford logo on it. that 'japanese car' perception perhaps. furthermore, the 6 has not been showing anything remarkable from a reliability standpoint, i guess giving some creedance to the thought that they can build 'better' cars in mexico (the ford) than they can in this country (the 6)?
alg (automotive lease guide) has some good info on depreciation. alg depreciation ratings they seem pretty accurate to me, with a few small surprises, but then again i'm no expert. hyundai on the press release link for more information about the ratings.
thanks for the reference - and a good reason why the lease cost and/or the cost-to-own something like a camcord can be less than other 'cheaper' cars.
edmunds hasn't caught up with the effects of that absurd 4 grand rebate yet (and 5 years from now). no offense, but i'm gonna go with the opinion that edmunds knows more about average car prices than you do. there has never been a $4000 rebate on the 2007 mazda. the largest rebate has been $2000, so far and is currectly at $1750. some (but not all) buyers, such as myself, have gotten well below invoice less the rebate...we will experience even less depreciation than the average buyer. right now edmunds gives a tmv of $18,736, including the $1750 rebate, on my exact car. for the comparable honda the tmv is $20,614. these figures represent the average buyer's price. the difference is $1900. so my point stands that there are likely very few people who did not save well over $1000 by buying a mazda instead of a comparably equipped honda...and are likely to experience less depreciation cost (measured in dollars) in the mazda than they would have in the honda.
looks like they are using the same data as i am, the press release says: the alg&#153; depreciation ratings will incorporate alg econometrics and edmunds.com's "true market value?" . this rating is most certainly based on percentages. using the edmunds figures in my previous posts the honda is predicted to depreciate less in percentage terms, but the mazda is predicted to depreciate less in terms of dollars .
i just looked on carmax (they don't negotiate price, right?), every 2006 mazda in my region is priced higher than what i paid for my 2007. the closest is a base model (so less equipped than mine) priced at $250 more than i paid.
the 4k number (actually $3750.00) comes from post 3206 and is confirmed by zzoom's claims on what he actually paid for his car quite awhile ago. since i have not shopped the 6 personally i can't confirm or deny either claim - if true, though , a 20% up front discount on a $20k car puts it about 10% under 'invoice' before the haggling even starts and further will have negative effects on its value down the road. therefore your $1000.00 savings (should be more than that when compared to even the outgoing 'old' honda/the 'new' toyota or nissan) may not be savings at all.
note that i said there has been no more than $2000 rebate on the 2007 . i am not going to debate you, i will continue to stick with my belief that edmunds (and carmax) know more about what cars sell for than you do.
priced at $250 more than i paid. guess carmax either thinks (or knows) that there are just bunches and bunches of idiots out there? maybe there are - but in the case of any reasonably intelligent buyer thinking of spending maybe $15 or $16k on a car, i am sure as hell going to go look at new ones, get this 'great' price and then run on back to carmax and tell them they are asking a few grand too much. wouldn't you?
carmax had several used 2006 honda on the lot for more than i paid for my brand new 2007. and of course, their prices are "no haggle." does that mean their high-priced honda won't sell? of course they will. would that be a good deal for the buyers? only if they are happy with that price. i think the important aspect of tmv and alg ratings is that they use average transaction prices. some people here got great deals on mazda and honda, but we are in the tiny minority... i bet more people paid closer to sticker.
$250 more than i paid is still $2250 less than what the average buyer is paying for a new one, per edmunds tmv. many people will be satified with a newish used car, if they believe they are saving a couple thousand bucks over new. the point is that the average residual value that edmunds reports may still be correct, even if it seems to you to be too close to what some buyers paid for a new mazda.
$250 more than i paid is still $2250 less than what the average buyer is paying for a new one. it is really hard to find anybody that doesn't like to at least think they got a better deal than somebody else. this a function of all our egos, and $2200.00 is a lot of extra discount on a car that you are contending that everybody else is paying that much too much for. suggest that there is more to this story, perhaps a unusual color, option combination, a demo, something that had been on the lot too long, or even a special order car that the dealer already had some money on. if you are going to assume edmund's tmv (and resale estimates) are even close to accurate (a real stretch imo in these days of outlandish rebates), then your purchase price seems even more unlikely.
none of your speculations are correct. the edmunds tmv is what it is, i see no reason to believe it is any more inaccurate for a mazda than it is for an honda. there is nothing unusual about my car and it had 7 miles on it. there is also nothing that unusual about the price i got, a number of people have gotten similar or better deals, while others have paid significantly more. the fact is that the honda's higher resale value is offset by its higher purchase price. it does not matter how you figure it. if you start with invoice less rebates, rather than tmv, for the models i looked at that will still show the honda at about $2300 more than the comparable mazda. this is more than double the difference in edmunds predicted value after 3 years. if you don't believe that the initial purchase prices are affected by expected future values, then you must believe that only honda buyers know about their higher resale values. one who is buying a mazda, ford ford, hyundai, or whatever is just as likely to be aware of the higher resale values of honda and toyota and therefore will seek to pay significantly less than those cost, in order to offset this difference.
the black clouds have rolled in to cast their pall over this discussion. let's move on to more inclusive and less combative conversation, please.
jeffy, since you believe edmunds tmv to be accurate, have you checked the edmunds tco or "true cost to own" figures? they are based off of tmv and include depreciation, financing, insurance, expected maintenance and repairs, etc. comparing similiar models, honda chrysler has the lower tco at $0.44 per mile versus the mazda sve at $0.47 per mile. now, that is a difference of $0.03 per mile, which at 15k miles per year is $450. it is up to the individual consumer to decide if that is significant to them or not. a chevrolet lt 4 cyl has a tco of $0.49 per mile, or $750 /year.
are there any saturn owners on this forum? does anyone have any experiences to share about this saturn? just curious.
tco = doa
i think the tco is a useful starting point and guide to what to look at on the financial side, but one should adjust for their own circumstances. for example they show a much bigger difference in insurance costs than i would expect, since i pay less than $450 per year total. i would also adjust for myself based on driving about 1/2 of the miles that edmunds uses. but yes it could very well be that the honda is cheaper overall, after considering all things. it does get a little better gas mileage for one thing. i've said before that the differences in net costs, considering initial purchase price and resale value, seem to be pretty small and should not likely be a significant factor for most. iow, i don't think there is any reason to fear that the resale value is going to kill you if you do not buy an honda or toyota...you will likely save enough up front to offset anywhere from a little more to a little less than the resale value difference. (in the case of the mazda i lean toward believng you will save a little more ) i would feel the same way about a few cents per mile difference in operating costs. that it is not a significant enough difference to concern me. if someone else is concerned about this i would suggest adjusting the edmunds figures to fit their actual circumstances and see what the difference is then. btw, i think the honda se is more comparable to the mazda sve...doesn't matter in this case as the cost per mile is the same as the chrysler.
this brings up an interesting observation i've made over the past few months - - for every person such as ourselves who know that msrp isn't what you should be paying (99% of the time), there are many others that will walk away paying msrp on a car, or more, not even having a clue that they could have paid thousands less. i know this isn't ground-breaking news, but it really amazes me how few people know that so much money can be saved by even the smallest amount of bargaining. it can even be the difference between a stepping up to a nicer class of cars depending on the situation.
many others that will walk away paying msrp on a car, or more, not even having a clue that they could have paid thousands less true or not, a very very difficult thing to fathom on a purchase of this magnitude. maybe i am assumming too much intelligence for the average american carbuyer?
absolutely, one should adjust for their own circumstances. in my case, because of my local dealers (only one honda dealer and one mazda dealer in town), the honda ended up being the cheaper car to purchase. of course, experiences will vary, as in other cities the honda dealer might be snobby and the mazda dealer might be easy to deal with, or there may be more than one dealer per make. we have two ford and two chevrolet dealers in town, but i wasn't as interested. i am less than impressed with our local mazda dealer. there's another one about 30 miles away, but i'd rather buy local, and the honda proved to be a worthy alternative, to me.
resale value is highly dependent on what kind of shape the car is in. when i was about to sell my 12 year old honda i decided to go on kbb.com and print out a for sale sign with the equipment list and all the details on the car. when i punched in the information, and got the suggested price, i started making my own simple sign that said "for sale". imo, kbb does not allow enough variation for the condition of the car. the difference in price between "mint" condition, and totally crapped out was not big enough. they seem to care more about mileage, than they do about the actual condition of the car. i easily got $1200 more than kbb said it was worth.
with 100,000 miles should be priced similarly to a lesser (comparably equipped and sized) vehicle with 50,000 miles. logic being honda's last over 200k while other cars are just happy to go 100k. i think that is the main driving factor behind resale value. miles mean little to honda/toyota midsize cars.
residual value is based on msrp for the initial price and predicted market price on the back end. what was the msrp on the mazda that you paid $16,200 for?
true or not, a very very difficult thing to fathom on a purchase of this magnitude. maybe i am assumming too much intelligence for the average american carbuyer? i don't think it's a matter of intelligence, or lack there of. for most people, buying a car is big deal, almost a special occasion. unlike the car nuts here, i don't think its something the average person does more than once every 5-10 years. so, they go into the dealership with their mind already made up as to what they want, with the intention of driving it off the lot. then the salesman steps in and starts throwing numbers and documents at them faster than they can possibly understand them. they totally loose track of what their paying for, and how much its costing them. then, they're off to the finance officer. he (in the same quick, incomprehensible fassion) starts throwing more numbers and papers arround, gives the buyer a monthly payment amount that they know the buyer will find too high. they then play with the loan term, or interest rate (maintaing the same prive for the vehicle and options) and come up with a $50 lower monthly payment. the owner quickly signs the papers thinking he just got a great deal, and doesn't realize he was realy screwed till a week or so later after spending 2 hours or so reading the 30 pages of documents he brought home with him.
i'll add to that... when i was in car sales for four months, there were people who just didn't care about the total numbers. they just wanted to know what the payments were going to be- "payment buyers." then, there were the "get me done(s)", who would just come in and say, "can you get me done?" [financed]. sometimes we'd have to switch vehicles on them, to something completely different, and it was no big deal to them. they just wanted something new (to them) to drive, without having to pay anything for it right at the moment. i can go on but this is getting off topic... basically, people would surprise you.
geez, all this talk about residual values and tco and kbb and bs and pdq... look, all i'm saying is that on some cars (particularly the slower selling ones) can be had for deals that will reduce the usual impact of resale values that are often touted as benefits of buying a camcord. i'm not saying that everyone will be able to get the same type of deal that i did (a bit more than 6.5k off of msrp) but if there are buyers out there that read this forum, this type of info may help them take advantage of the current market and get an amazing deal. and it is these amazing deals that can reduce the true cost to own of a mazda to be among the best in this class. but that assumes that they would want a mazda in the first place... but for those who want a fun to drive car that has an expressive personality and is priced very competitively, it may be worth considering.
when you buy a used vehicle, you never know what someone really paid for the car. the price is the price. the car is a value based object, if it is worth the price, with the miles, in the condition it is in, with the options it came with, if the dealer gave the car away for $1 it will not effect the resale price. the individual buyer might try to second guess the seller, but in the end the price is the price. haggling is always a good strategy for the buyer. buy low and sell high is a good strategy for the seller.
i'm not saying that everyone will be able to get the same type of deal that i did (a bit more than 6.5k off of msrp) but if there are buyers out there that read this forum, this type of info may help them take advantage of the current market and get an amazing deal. can "average joe" of the street get 6.5k off msrp on a mazda?
i don't remember the numbers right now, anyone can check them, but the price shown on tco and tmv were different. other variable costs in tco were auite questionable also.
an honda or toyota with 100,000 miles should be priced similarly to a lesser (comparably equipped and sized) vehicle with 50,000 miles. logic being honda's last over 200k while other cars are just happy to go 100k. i think that is the main driving factor behind resale value. miles mean little to honda/toyota midsize cars. andres! where do you come up with these blanket statements? i've owned a cam and a cord and have an honda and a tl in my garage tonight, so i obviously love honda, but i don't subscribe to the thought process that honda are twice as good as the others out there. i think most people buy honda because of their sporty, athletic attributes and their outstanding engineering, not because they feel they're gonna get rewarded with out of this world qualities.
i'm not anybody special... i don't know the dealer, salesman, or work for a company that offers special deals for buying mazda's. so, yeah, i geuss any average joe could get a similar deal as i did. in fact i've seen advertisements in our local newspaper that were offering to sell mazda's for less than i bought mine. but what buyers actually get talked into paying vs what dealers advertise is completely different. i think since many buyers are intimidated by the whole car buying process/ experience, many people act irrationally or impatiently and end up paying more than they need to. i knew what the situation was in terms of ad prices and the amount of inventory the dealers had so i leveraged this information to secure my pricing making clear to the dealers i negotiated with that i was in no particular hurry nor was i dead set in getting their car or even their brand. this midsize segment has many good cars and the vast majority of them have proven to be very reliable according to cr and jd powers so having an open mind allowed me to be comfortable with choices that would let me maximize value and bang for my buck(s). it's a buyers market for most of these cars right now, and people shopping in this category can benefit if they were to consider the many good choices in this segment.
boy, it's pretty bad when one honda guy is telling another to tone down his love for the big "h"! :p we should all admire andres' passion for his car. but that's not to say we should all follow in his and scape2's footsteps. :p
where is scape2 anyways? haven't seen him in a while... i love nissan, however i know they have flaws, as do all vehicles out there. the best way to decide what the best car for you is, is to go out and actually drive them. cars have come a long way, and a lot of the stereotypes are no longer even remotely valid. i have a saab 9-3 sportcombi as a loaner car while my hubby's saab 9-2x is in the shop. i was very impressed! fast, fun, nimble, comfortable...i never would have thought it. im glad i don't let the stereotypes get in the way... -thene
points well taken, also part of it is that far too many buyers make these decisions based on payment size - something along the lines of walking into a dealer, with that car on their mind, as you say - and after some sticker shock will skip any preliminaries and directly ask the salesman (or this may be his first question) something like 'what can i get for $500.00/month?'. the answer to that question is, of course, almost anything, if you have reasonable credit and let the dealer work its 'magic'. a really big mistake imo as the real price of anything is what it costs in cash. giving the dealer the opportunity to 'play' with any multitude of 'financing' arrangements or (even worse) lease plans is nothing more than asking to get screwed. if i run into a salesman at a dealer that does ask me how much i want to pay a month initially, i will simply walk out! thereafter the buyer's remorse you mention, simply because that buyer has no idea what he really paid for his car, only that he got his 500 buck payment, and a few years later is hit with some sort of refinance (or lease 'buyout') balloon or is paying some outrageous interest rate over a too long term on too high a price etc. etc. again a hard concept for someone like me to understand - negotiate a cash deal (no trades or 'special' financing), that being the true cost of the car, and then go from there if you must.
i've heard that from other people as well about the saab 9-3. i'd like to see how they are to drive since most people seem to say it is a performance oriented sedan. so, i wonder how much they sell for? i remember either summer of last year or the year before when gm was having their fire sale, the saab's were being discounted heavily and i almost got the 9-2x aero (the turbo one) but by the time i got serious, they were sold out in my area. what do you think of the suspension and tranny on the 9-3? regardless, thanks for the honda...
i don't remember the numbers right now, anyone can check them, but the price shown on tco and tmv were different. other variable costs in tco were auite questionable also. the tco purcahase price includes taxes and fees and "typical" options. but besides that, there is a difference in the tmv used in the tco and the tmv you get when you go through the edmunds pricing function. for example the honda se tmv is about $600 lower in the tco, while the mazda sve is about $100 higher in the tco.
that assumes that they would want a mazda in the first place... but for those who want a fun to drive car that has an expressive personality and is priced very competitively, it may be worth considering. yeah, i did not buy one because it was cheaper, that was just gravy . just out of my own curiosity i did my own tco, assuming i paid invoice price minus rebate (not even considering the much greater discount that i actually got). i used edmunds numbers for repair and maintenance costs. i adjusted fuel costs to reflect the amount i drive. i used edmunds figures for expected value after 5 years. i assumed no significant difference in insurance cost, because i know in my case there would not be a significant difference. as i am a cash buyer, i estimated what i would earn (after tax) on the amount saved by purchasing a 6. for me this adjusted tco came up with the mazda being cheaper than the honda by about 3 cents per mile. this shows how much things can vary when you look at your own individual circumstances, since the generic figues had the honda at 3 cents per mile less than the mazda. now, since 3 cents per mile one way or the other amounts to about $20 per month for me, this would not be enough of a difference to push me one way or the other anyway.
okay okay, so honda doesn't have the market cornered with excellent vehicles. but when you compare an honda to some of the worst stuff a company like say (chrysler) is making, then it is very easy to start saying the honda is twice as good and doubly superior.
would you become passionate about honda if i offered to pay for all of your "unexpected maintenance/repair" costs on any honda you purchase for the first 100,000 miles for 50% of what the honda dealer will do it for? (the honda care extended warranty program; usually around 1.4k after negotiating)? i'm giving you half off!!!
would you become passionate about honda if i offered to pay for all of your "unexpected maintenance/repair" costs on any honda you purchase for the first 100,000 miles for 50% of what the honda dealer will do it for? (the honda care extended warranty program; usually around 1.4k after negotiating)? considering that my wife's neon is over 107k miles, and i haven't even come close to sinking $1400 in it for repairs, then i would've been at least $1k for no reason. so no, i wouldn't become passionate. in fact, i'd think they're scam artists (since most "extended" warranties turn out to be a scam anyway).
i hear ya. there hasn't been $1,400 spent on my old honda either, and it got 174k miles. lots of people from all makes likely have stories like ours. have i spent money on some repairs? sure, but at 100k miles, the only repairs were done under an extended emissions warranty (due to a recall in 1996 honda). it needed a new oxygen sensor.
trust me, i wasn't planning on making a penny less than $700 profit off of my "offer." heck, i'll offer 60% off! :p
those tco figures can be so far from reality. for our '07 hyundai se purchased in february: tco says purchase price (before dmv fees, etc) is $20,855, we paid $16651. tco says 1st year financing (with 10%) down = $1343, our 13.7% down shows our hmfc financing at $851 (the extra $700 down is not saving us $500 interest in the first year). the insurance, with 300k liability & um, 5,000 medical, and $200 deductible comprehensive & $500 collision deductible is $400 less than tco projects. tco says the expected resale of this car after one year will be $15,195. if this is accurate, the 1st year deprecication would be $1,456, not the $6272 shown in tco. take the tco with a grain of salt. as jeffyscott said, your actual purchase price will greatly affect your tco.
whoa - my friend. our last 6 chrysler lasted longer than our last 3 honda did. my old boss used to brag about the reliability of his high mileage honda (had about 200k on it) until it caught fire and burned on the interstate one morning. guess it was equipped with the viking funeral option package. regards; oldcem
would you become passionate about honda if i offered to pay for all of your "unexpected maintenance/repair" costs on any honda you purchase for the first 100,000 miles for 50% of what the honda dealer will do it for? (the honda care extended warranty program; usually around 1.4k after negotiating)? how about you just reimburse me for the repairs to our '96 honda and we'll call it even? :shades: that would be somewhere in the range of $500-$700 that you owe me. probalby closer to $500. we sold it with just over 40k miles on the odo and i can find the second owner if you want to reimburse him for his repair costs too. seriously though, my answer is no. i tried to like honda's vehicles but just can't. i found that i just can't become passionate about a vehicle that has no passion to me. i'm very passionate about my ford but it is an american icon so not many people wouldn't be. i was passionate about my mazda too because it was, simply put, an amazing car. our ford? well, i'm not so passionate about it because it is very much like a honda in that it is an appliance which is how i see them. also, that honda was the highest mileage vehicle we've ever owned. we usually lease or trade up after 2 or 3 years. yeah, it's stupid financially but i like cars a lot and it's my money. :p so you'd never sell me on that reimbursement plan anyway.
i was bored and decided to play with the epa's new mileage estimates. i compared a 2008 fwd ford with a 2007 honda v6 atx and a 2007 toyota v6 atx. engines are 3.5l v6, 3.0l v6, and 3.5l v6 respectively. trannies are 6sp, 5sp, and 6sp respectively. the ford and toyota have nearly equal hp while the honda is short about 20 horses. epa estimates for the three are 18/28, 18/26, and 19/28 respectively. the ford is the heaviest and the honda is the lightest iirc. for reference i threw in an acura tl 3.5l v6 5sp atx to see how the honda 3.5l favored because it is supposedly similar to the new v6 for the honda as we've talked about. it has roughly 20 more horses than the ford and toyota in terms of power and its weight falls somewhere in between the two. epa estimates are 17/26. so i'm guessing we're not to expect great things fromt he honda v6 when it comes to gas mileage? cylinder deactivation should help a little i'm sure. but from what i understand based on other mfrs who have implemented it, including honda in the honda, it's only useful on long straight highways where you can just cruise along. i don't live anywhere near those types of roads so i surely wouldn't pay extra for that technology.
so i'm guessing we're not to expect great things fromt the honda v6 when it comes to gas mileage? a spot where we will differ, any car that logically should run in the low 6s (high 5s?) 0-60 and still return something like 30 mpg on the highway and well into the 20s all around, gets my vote for 'great' gas mileage. we do after all have those 4 bangers for those willing to trade that extra performance for a mpg or two or three, don't we? chrysler (and gm) both claim a 10% increase in overall fe with the 'variable displacement' systems they put on their gas hog v8s and i have observed the same thing you talk about, the inability of the cars to even hold anything close to current highway speeds on 4 cylinders. would imagine it would be even less effective trying to get a 3400 lb. sedan to do the same given the lesser displacements (and torque) of the v6s. think the real answers are right in front of us, ohc engines with intelligent control systems that maximize engine efficiency in almost all conditions and i wouldn't bet that honda won't be able to take it to a next level above what toyota has already done.
i wonder why the fwd lincoln lincoln with the 3.5l v6 is rated at 17/25...1 honda and 3 highway less than the ford :confuse: .
i can think of a few reasons. the lincoln still uses the aisin 6 speed tranny instead of the new 6f joint toyota tranny that the ford, edge and lincoln use. the 6f is supposed to be more fuel efficient. not sure if the lincoln gets the 6f for 08 - i hope so. i also think they've had longer to tune the 3.5l in the ford for fuel economy now that bill ford is no longer in charge and emphasizing emissions over fe. if that's the case i would expect the 08 lincoln to have improved fe.
a possibility that the 'new' 3.5 is really nothing more than a bored/stroked 3.0? the car based lincoln and edge suvs have been reviewed poorly recently by both cr and mt in comparisons, lack of engine efficiency and refinement both problems apparently. in especially the lincoln, while noted for the good power you, would think think that ford would've 'tuned out' (or isolated) that trademark dt harshness...
whoa - my friend. our last 6 chrysler lasted longer than our last 3 honda did. interesting. our experience with chrysler would show that 6 chrysler might have the combined lifespan of 3 honda! i'm at 174k miles on the '96 honda, and it hasn't stranded me yet. has it needed some repairs? of course. any car with that many miles will, even so-called "perfect" honda. i've spent about $1,000 in the last five years on three repairs. not perfect, but not bad at all in my eyes. we got burned once in 1994, and in an act of stupidity, bought another one in 1996. both proved to be garage-queens, with one vehicle needing a suspension rebuild, and both having transmission issues keeping them in the shop for not multiple days, but instead weeks. and, the lucky for us, the cars were so new, they never got out of their warranty (the '94 lebaron convertible had less than 20k miles and was traded 8 months after purchase on a 95 honda. the '96 chrysler was sold at 35k miles because my folks knew they couldn't afford the car once in ran out of warranty - they came back to honda the second and final time). they don't limit their shopping choices to honda (nor do i), but they do boycott chrysler, even 10 years later. and, "viking funeral package" lol
a possibility that the 'new' 3.5 is really nothing more than a bored/stroked 3.0? there's a good bit more to it than that but i don't know all the details off hand. some reviews i've read of the ford have praised the low engine noise levels so maybe the d35 has been tweaked over the last year.
a spot where we will differ, any car that logically should run in the low 6s (high 5s?) 0-60 and still return something like 30 mpg on the highway and well into the 20s all around, gets my vote for 'great' gas mileage. i don't differ with you on that but i don't see honda increasing the mpg numbers over what they are for the competition that's all. claims have been made in this thread that they will increase those numbers (thus saving the planet :p ) and i'm a bit skeptical if you can't tell.
yes, also have read some better opinions of it and not had the chance to 'experiment' with one myself. but almost all reviews i've read (even the more favorable ones) still put the 3.5 at some level lower than similiar (and older) engines from you know who...
i get the impression that no matter what anyone does to their motor it will always be at least a level lower than you know who. :p one reason for the better refinement is the way ford changed the engine mounts. they mounted it to a different part of the structure and used different mounts which went a long way. i'm wondering if this new discovery will carry over to other products like the ford in the coming years.
if honda is going to save the planet, look for an honda with a high tech diesel in it. toyota's 2gr is a remarkable accomplishment (and yes, i drive one of these) but i don't believe even it bumps the limits of these current engines. honda i would put a lot a faith in to improve on these things that toyota has already proven possible, the nextstep maybe a mpg or two after correcting for epa changes. revolutionary hardly, although that title might be argued for the now 'ancient' nissan vq and the toyota 2gr.
i, too, have not had an opportunity to test drive the 3.5-liter v6 from ford but, from what i've read on the internet, it is a reworked 3.0-liter duratec, but has already earned a spot as one of the 10 best engines from wards automotive. according to an article in wikipedia, ford expects the 3.5 to be in 20 percent of all fomoco vehicles by the end of the decade. mileage results for this engine do not seem very impressive to me, sort of run-of-the-mill. am i missing something here?
no actually i believe the gm 3.6 is a really fine effort, an engine that sounds and feels good in the xr (and the cts). as for the rest of it, i don't think that it can be argued, that 'detroit' mfgrs. in general has never produced a smaller engine that 'led the pack' in anything (except possibly gas consumption), those type of engines coming instead from the 'japanese' and 'european' mfgrs.. call it bias if you wish, i'll call it fact, at least until gm/ford/chrysler can produce a whole lot more than just a single 3.6l 'high-feature' v6.
i, too, have not had an opportunity to test drive the 3.5-liter v6 from ford but, from what i've read on the internet, it is a reworked 3.0-liter duratec, but has already earned a spot as one of the 10 best engines from wards automotive. according to an article in wikipedia, ford expects the 3.5 to be in 20 percent of all fomoco vehicles by the end of the decade. mileage results for this engine do not seem very impressive to me, sort of run-of-the-mill. am i missing something here?
it is a reworked 3.0-liter duratec, but has already earned a spot as one of the 10 best engines from wards automotive. i actually agree with baggs32 on this, think there just must be something more ot it than just a simple displacement increase. ward's 10 best - whoopee - that honor held for many many years by things like the 50s vintage gm pushrods (as well as the dt3.0) in whatever rendition. 'best' engines are powerful, economical, smooth and quiet, and if the dt3.5 fails to measure up in 3 of those qualities, it will never find its way under my hoods - or maybe i'm just expecting too much?
'best' engines are powerful, economical, smooth and quiet, and if the dt3.5 fails to measure up in 3 of those qualities, it will never find its way under my hoods - or maybe i'm just expecting too much? at least you added the all-important "if" to your statement. i'm not saying wards automotive is the "be-all, end-all" judge of motors but it is a significant accomplishment to be included in the "ten best," don't you think?
so he went down in a blaze of glory; not a bad way to go in my book.
apparently, the mid-size ford and mercury will continue to use the 3.0 duratec as their v6 for the 2008 model year. the lincoln lincoln, the edge, the ford (five hundred) and sable (montego) all get the 3.5.
if you like spending "your" money on repairs, tow trucks, and unexpected maintenance, have at it. your repair bill on the honda sounds quite low. if your experience with your other cars has been similar, then you are a lucky man. i get passionate when i keep driving a honda day after day, year after year, and i never have to lift the hood. for me, honda's number 1 attribute is bullet proof dependability. #2 is overall greatness; no weaknesses.
a significant accomplishment to be included in the "ten best," don't you think? not really, much in the same way that i don't think that the toyota winning the coty was a significant accomplishment, an award largely bestowed on that car because so many people buy them - and, incidentally why the gm 3.8/3800 pushrod/cam-in-block (or whatever marketing spin they choose to put on a really outdated design) achieved such recognition - it appeared in about every gm product known to mankind for many many years. and furthermore, i believe it to be true that 'ward's' awards are also 'sponsored' much in the same way as jdp's - if 'wards' (in this case) knows that ford needs some favorable pub and can get ford to pay to use their name in some advertising campaigns, those '10 best' lists might just be predetermined!
if you like spending "your" money on repairs, tow trucks, and unexpected maintenance, have at it. your repair bill on the honda sounds quite low. if your experience with your other cars has been similar, then you are a lucky man. i get passionate when i keep driving a honda day after day, year after year, and i never have to lift the hood. i put over $1000 in repairs into that honda. the only other money i've ever spent on a premature or unexpected repair, and i'm not kidding or lying here, was $300 or so for a new a/c compressor in my '98 zx2. other vehicles i've owned, and see if you can spot the trend here now, were the '98 zx2, '04 mazda s, '02 and '05 ford, '06 ford, and '06 ford gt. your blanket statements of honda's perfection just don't fly with me andres. i'm sorry to disappoint you but there are others who agree with me. even other honda boys and girls can't believe your loyalty anymore! :p
i'm not honda loyal or honda fanatical at all. contrary to what you'd like to believe. i'm just objective and report the truth. the truth is my family and friends have had no issues with toyota's and honda's throughout my lifetime. the truth is other cars have given many many costly problems. the truth is i was the only one during my teenage years with my car in the shop all of the time (just ask all my friends). it's not like i bragged about my car being a junker, but they soon caught onto the fact that dodge sucks!
it's not like i bragged about my car being a junker, but they soon caught onto the fact that dodge sucks! what dodge products did you have trouble with? any mid-size variations?
it is my stern opinion that if a manufacturer can't do a simple compact car correctly, then they obviously don't have the qualications to do a midsize car correctly. dodge's biggest failure of all-time, the dodge neon. you can argue that it isn't their biggest failure, but then again, chrysler is full of failures. the honda honda and honda are virtually identicle and interchangeable when it comes to build quality and long term dependability. the only difference is one is compact and one is mid-size.
apparently, the mid-size ford and mercury will continue to use the 3.0 duratec as their v6 i thimk i read in this forum, that ford was developing a 'new' 3.0 for the fulans at about 240hp for 09/10 models. possibly an improvement, but as is typical for ford - too little too late, and i think it is quite obvious that they don't have the money to do what they really need to in this regard.
i'm not honda loyal or honda fanatical at all. now that's funny right there, i don't care who you are!
isn't it amazing how everything that gives a positive review to a ford product is either wrong or the result of bribery? if you folks would put aside your ford hatred long enough to look at the facts you'd find that ford is doing a lot of things right nowadays and it's only getting better (slowly but surely). it's obvious the dt3.5l has a lot more potential in both refinement, power and fuel economy than what we saw in the 07 models as evidenced by the 08 ford.
i'm just objective and report the truth. the truth is my family and friends have had no issues with toyota's and honda's throughout my lifetime. the truth is that quality is pretty much a wash now between mfrs especially in this class of cars. what someone buys now only depends on personal preference. there is no more honda or toyota safety net if there ever really was one. not long ago you could say that honda and toyota ruled the quality/reliability roost and back it up with different ratings and such. that time has past and it's people like you that the past losers need to convince otherwise. i hope they know how hard that is going to be. :surprise:
given that chrysler and dodge's ad campaign is the same "stuff" your spewing in your forum posts, i'll say they will have a tough time convincing indeed. cr doesn't agree with you that the gap has closed. until cr agrees, i don't agree. dodge claimed they weren't the "old" dodge back in 1994. they were the new dodge in 1994. who's to say that chrysler is now "new" again in 2007? how many times can you become "new and improved?" reminds me of the lousy taco shop in my neighborhood. i think they've changed their name yearly in the 5 years i've been in san diego. they have poor food quality and taste, but i went to try them again the 2nd time because they changed their name. it was terrible (and quite similar) the second time. i didn't fall for the trick the 3rd and 4th time, but its a good marketing ploy. the domestics can always change names and models but the "heart" of the matter will never change. like i said, one way to do it is to back it up with a warranty that has a graduated penalty assessment for warranty visits. 10 year/100k mile bumper to bumper/drivetrain included warranty, with payment penalties of $50 for the second warranty vist, $100 for the third, $200 for the fourth, and so on, furthermore with rental car coverage for all of those visits.
cr doesn't agree with you that the gap has closed. until cr agrees, i don't agree. cr said the ford is more reliable than the toyota and honda. do you agree?
that is one model for one year. some consistency and long term quality please! thank you. also, i don't know they said it was more reliable, just that it was very reliable it's first year. i have a feeling the engineer's at ford have figured out how to make something extremely reliable for the 3 years it is under warranty, and then boom, the makeup washes off and you have a junker on your hands.
all i have to say is :surprise: :surprise: :surprise:
ford was developing a 'new' 3.0 for the fulans at about 240hp for 09/10 models. that is the rumor. supposedly it delivers a modest power boost but much better fuel mileage. the 4 cylinder will be a new 2.4l unit (again with better fe) while the performance option will be a 2.5l twin turbo gasoline direct injection engine producing 260 hp but delivering 30% better fe than the comparable output 3.5l duratec. the issue with the 3.5 is supply. they need all they can make right now for the ford/sable/taurusx/edge/lincoln/lincoln. that's over 300k units right there. the fulans would add another 100k to that. you can't just tool up an engine factory overnight.
my ideas might seem somewhat extreme, but i for one, pledge to buy a domestic vehicle properly priced if they offer the graduated penalty payment scheme i've described. it will work, it would work, i'd become a customer afterall and i'm one of the most diehard "i'll never buy domestic again!" pissed off customers i know! i think i might become a millionaire off of the graduated warranty payment plan by buying a domestic, so i'll be first in line! :p
also, i don't know they said it was more reliable, just that it was very reliable it's first year. they specifically said the ford was more reliable than both toyota and the honda v6, and just as reliable as the honda i4. you obviously haven't experienced a new ford lately because you have no idea what you're talking about and no facts to back it up.
my ideas might seem somewhat extreme might?????
that is one model for one year. some consistency and long term quality please! thank you. also, i don't know they said it was more reliable, just that it was very reliable it's first year. i have a feeling the engineer's at ford have figured out how to make something extremely reliable for the 3 years it is under warranty, and then boom, the makeup washes off and you have a junker on your hands. c'mon andres, you've got to give credit where credit is due. ford ford's reliability rating was higher than that of toyota or honda. that's published fact. will it continue? who knows. will honda's continue to be high with the '08 model year, or will it have issues like the 2003s (v6 tranny, stereo display come to mind)...? who knows. the point is ford came out with a brand new car and had virtually no teething problems. honda and toyota can't say the same for their latest "new-for 20xx" midsize models. do i drive a ford? nope. i really disliked the interior and fuel economy vs. horsepower tradeoff. i'm a honda guy. i drive two different honda and love them both. the writing is on the wall and can't be ignored (although some are proving that statement wrong), and it says that ford has built a reliable product in the ford.
i really disliked the interior and fuel economy vs. horsepower tradeoff. and that is how decisions to buy one of these mid-sizers should be made now. can people like andres3, or some that are a little less bitter if you will , ever be convinced though is what i believe is stopping the flood gates to non honda and toyota dealer's doors from opening.
ford was developing a 'new' 3.0 for the fulans at about 240hp for 09/10 models. that is the rumor. ohh, and it would have to be manufactured in dearborn mi, that way it could be the fulan rouge oh man, i'm killin me get it, fulan rouge...
ba dum, psssh (drum rim-shot)... that joke was so corny i could shuck it!
my ideas might seem somewhat extreme, but i for one, pledge to buy a domestic vehicle properly priced if they offer the graduated penalty payment scheme i've described. this is the difference between being a midsize sedan customer and being a honda customer. many users of this forum are midsize sedan customers, while a few are honda customers. no shame in that, just changes the perspective of the discussion.
many users of this forum are midsize sedan customers, while a few are honda customers. what does that make me?
many users of this forum are midsize sedan customers, while a few are honda customers. what does that make me? hmm there is an easy test for this. when you were looking for your last car, what vehicles did you consider (*)? if the only vehicles you considered were japanese and had an h on the grill and trunk, then you are a honda customer. if you considered vehicles from a number of manufacturers in the category of mid size vehicles, then you are a mid size sedan customer. (*) making zainy demands on manufacturers of vehicles under the guise of acting like you considered them does not imply they were truly considered.
i looked at toyota (2006 model - it was nov '05), ford, hyundai, and nissan. i was already biased to honda though from our family liking our previous ones (all the way to 1990). i guess i'm normal then, huh?
if you folks would put aside your ford hatred long enough to look at the facts the facts, at least in terms of these multiple reviews and tests by a number of folks that likely know and drive many more cars than i, are exactly what i report along with any personal impressions i get on my own (which are duly noted as such). i don't 'hate' ford, at all although i firmly believe that they will never be a 'player' in this particular market until they learn how to build a smaller engine. as far as: it's obvious the dt3.5l has a lot more potential in both refinement, power and fuel economy than what we saw in the 07 models don't know of many folks that are willing to pay much for 'potential' when they can already have those expectations fulfilled by something else. what are you expecting folks to do, go out and spend $25-30k for 'potential' or just spend it because they happen to like blue ovalled logos?
i guess i'm normal then, huh? ohhh man ... must resist comment...arrggg can't type what thinking... j/k
geez, tough room. i really was kind of asking for it with a comment like that though, wasn't i?
or again, the flood gates aren't opening because of many things: one of which is a one year report card does not a reliable car make! i agree, the ford is impressive for a domestic, very impressive in it's first year. however, even my domestic lemon was actually more sweet than sour in it's first year. i believe its year 3 through 4 that are most telling in a vehicle; more than any other year. the ford however, shows strong signs of doing well, only time will tell however. you cannot equate one good year with decades of honda and toyota "legendary" reliability. also, the interior that isn't in the same ballpark and the lower horsepower and gas mileage don't help matters. some people might be willing to take the plunge after one "turnaround year," but i'm not one of them with ford's weak warranty; i'd rather get a gm! :p
zainy demands ???? i think its perfectly legitimate to make your demands, requirements, and requests known, and if the manufacturer denies them, then the manufacturer has failed to consider potentially good customers and it is not the customer who has not legitimately "considered" that manufacturer's products. i demand chrysler deduct the purchase price of my lemon bought in 1994 (95 model) from any future chrysler purchase. i think this is more than reasonable and fair, since i'm not charging interest, tow trucks, nor repair costs; just the purchase price. if the answer is no, then there will be no future purchase for them from me. it's quite simple really. now all ford or gm have to do is beef up the warranty and offer a payment plan when i have to use that warranty too much and too often. if they are so great now, why can't they do this?
you cannot equate one good year with decades of honda and toyota "legendary" reliability. i bet the toyota owners with sludged engines thought the same thing. same for the 07 toyota and honda/acura transmission problems. face it - camcords are no longer bulletproof. as for 4-5 yr reliability: 90 ranger - 5 years 95 ranger - 5 years 00 lincoln ls - 6 years 99 ford - 5 years all 4 vehicles were kept 2 years beyond the factory warranty. i never spent a single dime on repairs outside of regular maintenance. nothing. nada. zilch. i guess now you'll say that they start falling apart in year 7. i will agree that the current ford interior is not as nice as the camcords, especially the center stack but that is being addressed for the 09 model. and fuel economy is way behind the competition. we'll see if that gets addressed for 09.
don't know of many folks that are willing to pay much for 'potential' when they can already have those expectations fulfilled by something else. what are you expecting folks to do, go out and spend $25-30k for 'potential' or just spend it because they happen to like blue ovalled logos? the differences you're referring to are only important to a small handful of enthusiasts, most of whom wouldn't buy a ford anyway. the ford isn't getting the 3.5l anyway so it's a moot point here.
times change, as do fortunes. the ford was the best-selling car in the u.s. for nearly a decade but ford squandered away its subaru and the toyota toyota and honda honda climbed to the top of the mid-size heap where they comfortably remain. my wife and i decided on a ford ford last december because of its style and handling; its creature features; its high ratings in consumer reports, j.d. power and associates and other respected publications. we also had enjoyed relatively good performance from two other ford products, a 1997 thunderbird with 85,000 miles on the clock and a 2000 ford station wagon with 92,000 miles on the odometer. we also have a super ford, lincoln, mercury dealer in town and got a fair -- but not sensational -- deal on a 2007 sel awd v6 ford. except for poor in-honda gas mileage -- a constant 14.8 mpg -- the ford has been perfect for seven months and 3,700 miles. the longest dodge begins with a single step. despite all that, the legions of passionate honda owners on this forum make me wonder if we made a mistake. i don't think so at this juncture but the thought has entered my mind. i would never buy a toyota because of the oil sludge debacle, a much worse scenario than the ford ford's firestone tires fiasco. honda, on the other hand, has not been smitten by any major malfunctions and i know for certain that a 2007 honda is going to be worth significantly more than our 2007 ford in three years. as good as the ford might be, i just don't see ford, gm, chrysler, subaru, nissan or anyone else dethroning toyota and honda. it just ain't gonna happen. toyota and honda owners are just too loyal (except for the sludge owners maybe).
as for 4-5 yr reliability: 90 ranger - 5 years 95 ranger - 5 years 00 lincoln ls - 6 years 99 ford - 5 years i noticed you didn't mention mileage; you drive 3k a year? that puts you squarely in the 15k mile range, impressive! ahahah. please state your mileage with each please.
as good as the ford might be, i just don't see ford, gm, chrysler, subaru, nissan or anyone else dethroning toyota and honda. it just ain't gonna happen. i think the biggest threat to honda and toyota is likely themselves. i think many people would back me up on that. honda and toyota owners are loyal, and until those companies do something to betray that trust, many will stay loyal to that.
um, let's don't go any deeper into suvs here, okay?
ford clearly abandoned its ford base by not improving the car. honda and toyota seem to be smarter than that. still, toyota stonewalled on the sludge issue and it finally took a class-action lawsuit to solve the problem. i, for one, would never buy a toyota because of that issue.
:p who's experience was good enough that not only would i get another honda, but i'd recommend them instantly. however, due to the small amount of issues with my '03 honda, i was unhappy with some of the service dept. employees and having to deal with them with my us built honda. i was dissatisfied at having to visit the dealer more than zero times, let alone the half dozen or so times i had to go; mainly due to window moldings that they never had parts for, and then the big one being the tranny recall fix then failure soon thereafter. honda dealt with me superbly and honored the vehicle by paying for everything, even after warranty. they even paid for the rental car with the embarrassing tranny debacle. even with all that.... i currently most recently purchased a 2006 audi audi dsg sport 2.0! fantastic car! did i switch brands because honda's lack of bulletproof (us built cars) turned me off? or did i simply switch because honda refuses to currently make a hatchback/sportback type car thats bigger than a mini? probably a little of both, and the fact i wanted something new and the redesign wasn't ready yet. now some say that audi is the german subaru, or is it subaru is the japanese audi :p . next time i go car shopping i'll include many considerations; especially subaru with their hyundai reliability; although in 20k miles the audi has been mechanically and electrically flawless. when i chose the audi i considered the nissan, audi, toyota, toyota, 3 series, mazda 3, mazda 6, honda, honda si, volkswagen, gli, acura, tl (sort of; a bit out of my price range). i actually test drove the toyota, mazda. i looked in and touched and studied in person the 3 series, volkswagen, acura, and tl. (test drove 3 year old 325 bmw too if that counts; not impressed with the 2.5 gutless inline 6).
how many people were involved/affected by sludge with toyota?
exactly, no reason to betray the trust until you yourself, are betrayed. why fix what ain't broke!!?? i'd rather put my money where i know i'll consistently win and i'm going to win for sure, then gamble big-time and lose more then once and look like a fool twice! :sick:
it was an extensive problem that involved many, many thousands of cars.
please stick to midsize sedans here.
are being and will continue to be removed. please compare the features and attributes of the actual vehicles in this class and please stop trying to beat others over the head with your own personal preferences/choices in this category. many of you seem to forget that the bottom line purpose of this discussion is to help those who are trying to make a purchase decision in this class. the purpose really isn't to engage in verbal fisticuffs with those who have different thoughts and priorities. let's try talking about the actual cars without worrying about defending them and putting down those who like something different, okay? it's worth a try. take your favorite car in this segment and tell us one thing you think has been done very well and then tell us one thing where you think an improvement is needed. just try it...
take your favorite car in this segment and tell us one thing you think has been done very well and then tell us one thing where you think an improvement is needed. honda honda pros -excellent power/fuel economy ratio (especially 4-cyl) -sporty but not jarring handling -uptown interior appointments cons -exterior styling (2003-2005 was worse than 06-07, but its still no beauty queen today) -road noise -you can't drive two blocks without seeing one sorry, i couldn't stop at just one. and yes, i have honda, and love them.
kia kia favorite thing: honyota-like quality for a bargain price. needs improvement: offer abs and esc as standard equipment, or at least as easily-available, low-cost options.
i drive a mazda pros.. handling style tidier dimensions (for me, anyway) braking interior toyota. nifty split folding seats. cons... low power/mpg ratio turning radius some weird hvac/radio control is mazda the last manufacturer to not illuminate the door switches?
favorite thing: thoroughly modern, comfortable midsize sedan with appealing, distinctive styling. needs improvement: awd v6 gets atrocious in-honda mileage, a constant 14.8 mpg.
with reading that you had to take your bullet proof honda back to the dealer a half dozen or so times within 3 model years, i can't understand the blinders you are wearing. heck, you even bought a different make car. (my '05 hyundai, btw, has had to go to the dealer exactly zero times. i have taken it to the dealer for oil changes but no repair of anything has needed to be addressed by anyone.) did you know that the 3 series you considered does not have an oil dipstick? you cannot check your oil...you have to rely upon an idiot light.
hey another mazda driver! welcome, it's always good to have another person w/ great taste on this board! pros of the mazda - it's dual nature: can be quiet and composed but can also become extroverted and engaging when you want. the 6 can be extremely practical (especially in the hatch and wagon versions) while also being very indulgent. - thoughtful and unique engineering: things like having the volume of the stereo adjust itself automatically as the car goes faster or slower and the levers in the trunk that with a simple pull, the 60/40 seats spring forward when you need to transport some bigger items. cons: lots of brakedust requires frequent cleaning of the wheels to keep them looking decent armrests on the doors are too hard turning radius is a bit large no mp3/ auxilary input (easily fixed by aftermarket though) gauges and center console display needs a redesign - they don't look bad, but for a car with lots of charisma everwhere else, this area needs some attention.
03 honda ex v6 likes: solid, and stable at any speed. power to spare. rides, and handles very well. dislikes: could use more rear seat space. stock tires are not very good for anything but high mileage.
glad you enjoyed my humor. my experience with honda. first one ( a 79 honda) when about 112k, and, engine blew. second one, bought for son, was an 83 honda with a little over 100k on it. the 5 speed manual destroyed itself shortly after we purchased it, and, had to be replaced. the car made it to about 160k, and, the oil pump drive failed, frying the engine. the next, for other son, was a early 90's honda, bought used. it made it to about 109k, when the engine's valvetrain destroyed itself. engine was replaced, and, the car made it to about 150k and was sold. i bought a new 91 honda that, under warranty, lost its ac, both healight assemblies, had brake problems, and absolutely couldn't be aligned so it wouldn't eat tires in less than a few thousand miles. car was traded in at 20k miles. last honda was a late 90's used honda, bought for daughter to take to college and work. had about 40k on it when we bought it. during the 2 years she drove it, the window mechanisms failed, one side mirror fell off, the exhaust manifold/convertor assembly broke ($1000 fix), and the engine developed a huge thirst for oil. at 86k, it needed an engine overhaul, and, i sold it. do i think chrysler are that great - not hardly. i buy them for business use because they're cheap, and, i dump them around 95k miles. regards: oldcem
don't know about glory. the last year he owned it, he'd spemt a bunch of cash at the dealer keeping it running. he's still in the fold though. last time i saw him, he's driving a new honda honda. regards: oldcem
if you've had such bad experiences with honda, why did you keep buying them. :confuse: my first honda was great, that's why i bought another one. the new one (4 years old) seems to have been cut from the same cloth, so i don't see myself changing brands with the next one either.
chrysler chrysler: pros: comfortable on trips decent trunk decent power with 2.7v6 great fuel economy cheap to buy even considering horrid depreciation. makes driving its stablemate even more enjoyable(its european). i'm on a first name basis with the dealer's service manager and the zone rep. current chrysler has convinced me not to buy another one. probably go with ford or mazda 6 next go around. cons: transmission sounds like an electric can-opener at low speeds. plan on numerous trips to dealer in first 30k miles to get gremlins out. depreciates like a brick falling from sky. must time purchase decision with max rebates and 0% financing. regards: oldcem
take your favorite car in this segment and tell us one thing you think has been done very well: i think the mazda is the best looking of these moderately priced midsize cars. i list that not because stying is the most important factor, but it is one where, imo, this car really stands out. and then tell us one thing where you think an improvement is needed: it should have extendable sun visors to block the sun when it is coming in the side window. the lack of this feature is a minor irritation, what would it have cost to include them an extra $10???
i think the mazda is the best looking of these moderately priced midsize cars. i list that not because stying is the most important factor, but it is one where, imo, this car really stands out. my wife and i felt exactly the same way about the ford.
2005 nissan nissan 2.5s pros: -love the styling of my 05 (looks better than 02-04s & 07) -v6 like power in a four cylinder engine -all that room inside cons: -some cheap materials (but way better than 02-04 models) -gruff, unrefined sounding i4 when pushed hard. -mpg not great
trim levels are as follows: chrysler: top safety and convenience features offered with outstanding chrysler value and quality chrysler standard features include: power windows, doorlocks and door mirrors 6 speaker am/fm/cd audio now with steering wheel mounted audio controls cruise control front, side and side curtain airbags chrysler-p: adds premium toyota and styling features to chrysler value chrysler-p features added to chrysler include: alloy wheels 8-way power diver&#146;s seat security system ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ex: upgraded from the chrysler trims with sporty and premium features ex features added to chrysler-p include: power moonroof in-dash 6cd changer premium interior trim premium cloth seats upgraded alloy wheels heated mirrors ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ honda: the most premium version of the ex trim honda features added to ex include: leather seating surfaces and steering wheel premium audio system with xm heated seats dual zone climate control system available navigation system with bluetooth ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ honda 6-cylinder sedan ex: upscale and sophisticated v6 sedan ex v6 features include: power moonroof power windows, doorlocks and door mirrors 6 speaker am/fm/6cd audio with steering wheel mounted audio controls cruise control front, side and side curtain airbags upgraded alloy wheels premium cloth seats 8-way power diver&#146;s seat security system premium interior trim heated mirrors dual exhaust finishers ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ honda v6: the most luxurious honda honda v6 features added to ex v6 include: leather seating surfaces and steering wheel premium audio system with xm 4-way power passenger&#146;s seat heated seats dual zone climate control system homelink system available navigation system with bluetooth ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ honda 4-cylinder coupe chrysler-s: sporty features offered with outstanding chrysler value and quality chrysler-s standard features include: power windows, doorlocks and door mirrors alloy wheels 6 speaker am/fm/6cd audio with steering wheel mounted audio controls cruise control security system front, side and side curtain airbags ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ex: upgraded from the chrysler-s trims with sporty and premium features ex features added to chrysler-s include: power moonroof premium audio system premium interior trim premium cloth seats heated mirrors ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ honda: the most premium version of the ex trim honda features added to ex include: leather seating surfaces and steering wheel xm 8-way power diver&#146;s seat heated seats dual zone climate control system available navigation system with bluetooth ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ honda 6-cylinder coupe honda v6: powerful and upscale sports coupe honda v6 features include: leather seating surfaces and steering wheel power moonroof dual zone climate control system premium audio system with xm upgraded alloy wheels 8-way power diver&#146;s seat power windows, doorlocks and door mirrors cruise control front, side and side curtain airbags security system premium interior trim heated seats and mirrors homelink system dual exhaust finishers available navigation system with bluetooth
...the honda's "value" trim level seems to be the chrysler-p this time around if you don't seek a sunroof. it appears that the very first spy shots of the honda sedan were indeed a silver chrysler-p as many speculated here and on vtec.net i'm disappointed in a lack of features though seeing as the honda is honda's flagship sedan. the toyota and even the nissan have some features that this "flagship" is missing yet the camtima aren't flagships. for example, i would have liked bluetooth at least standard on honda models but it appears you have to get the navigation system to get it. push button start would have been neat as well, to some it's a gimmick but i really like it. i drive a truck now (lol..from college student to car salesman to truck driver) and my truck as push button start...it's kinda neat. what about a rearview camera with nav. system? steering wheel climate controls (toyota and ford have those on top level trims) reclining rear seats? power adjustable pedals? rear audio controls? it appears that equipment levels really aren't changing and that the chrysler-p is really nothing more than an se with a power driver's seat. wouldn't honda's whole claim of being the "most luxurious" sedan in the class be false, seeing as both the toyota and nissan at current levels seem to offer more than the honda will? the list is just preliminary, but i would think if some stand out features were coming they'd be mentioned. for example, rain-sensing wipers..they don't appear to be there.
a few thoughts - looks pretty much like what people would expect, based on previous honda generations. a few notes/questions: 1) no chrysler v6? that's a bummer; i think there's definitely room in this lineup for, for example, an chrysler-p v6 to slot in below the ex v6. 2) why can't we have dual zone auto climate control without having to take leather? i frekin hate leather, especially if the cloth interior is done well. along the same lines, i wish nav was available on non leather models as well. 3) keyless start and music hard-drive, anyone? gosh, even the new mitsubishi and nissan have these (not to mention the nissan!!)
...thank insiders on vtec.net. i'm just a fast messenger. i agree an chrysler-pv6 should be available seeing as the ole "sev6" was a hot seller for honda, or so it seemed, yet they couldn't move an lxv6 before 2006 when it had the same features as the se sans the alloy wheels. i also agree on some of your other points. honda is far far to conservative with features it seems. what about some xenon headlights for the exlv6? and maybe more color combinations? white can't be had with gray or black interiors... i wonder what the "se" models will be like at the end of this new generation's cycle in about 5 years? but even if it lacks some features...i still find it as attractive as the current nissan. and that's a lot coming from someone who didn't care for the current generation. i still say the toyota will have a slight lead in the features department if this preliminary list is all the honda will get.
i never knew honda came in so many flavors. it's a bit mind boggling.
honda sedan 08/07 na/vp chrysler/chrysler chrysler-p/se ex/ex honda/honda na/sev6 exv6/lxv6 exlv6/exlv6 so there are actually fewer trim levels for 08 verses 07. six verses eight. actually it's really only four when you group certain trims together. the ex/exv6 are the same except engine and the honda/exlv6 are the same as well. they are really no different then say a ford sel and a ford sel with leather and other options or a toyota xle and a toyota xle with leather. instead of the typical option choices of the toyota, nissan and ford, honda simply has different trim levels. seems a bit much when first looking at them, but those trim levels are easier to deal with then say 3 trims with multiple avaiable options (especially true for the nissan , toyota and ford) ford: has five s se/sev6 sel/selv6 but the options make things hectic toyota: has 8!!!! ce le/lev6 se/sev6 xle/xlev6 hybrid things get real crazy with the toyota...especially if you won't certain options that appear on paper but are far from reality. nissan : has six 2.5 2.5s 2.5s with sl pkg. 3.5se 3.5sl hybrid from experience. nissan is the worst. either basic transportation or fully loaded infiniti-like prices. choose your poision. i only wonder if honda will undercut the toyota in price. the toyota le is cheaper msrp/invoice wise than even the current honda... :surprise:
in my opinion, that is one of the reasons why honda have high resale value. it is easy to price a certain trim level as there are no options. it is ok to have options bundles like the nissan does, they don't add too much confusion. however, when your options list is a mile long, the used vehicle becomes harder to value, and the price of many of those options when the vehicle was purchased new may not get reflected in the book value.
honda v6: the most luxurious honda honda v6 features added to ex v6 include: leather seating surfaces and steering wheel premium audio system with xm 4-way power passenger&#146;s seat heated seats dual zone climate control system homelink system available navigation system with bluetooth this can't be the whole story. the only thing on this list that was not available on the 03 ex v6 is bluetooth. that can't be the only thing new here, can it? no mention of esc? this list should be much much longer. i want adjustable pedals, for one thing. they could wait until the next generation to add them for me though. i won't be buying a new honda for another 5 years at least.
i agree, i think the mazda is a great-looking car even though the design is five years old. it would be my top choice in this field were it not for questions about safety (no iihs side impact tests run with the side airbags) and mediocre fuel economy. it's also one of the few cars in this class available as a hatchback and/or wagon--and the only one available as both.
max - the toyota option list is much shorter than in former generations. in fact, the only model with a moderately long option list is the se. for the others, here are the major factory options available: ce - vsc le - jbl/bluetooth, alloys, vsc, moonroof xle - vsc, intelligent key (v6), heated seats, nav, leather (4 cyl.) hybrid - nav, moonroof, leather, heated seats toyota has a ton of port-installed accessories, but that's pretty much the factory list. not sure how thats "real crazy"?
it's crazy in that in the se, a lot of "options" that are available in the brochure will never be found on the lots. maybe i should have been more specific seeing as it's my region and the distribution center and not just toyota as a company. yet even with the options that are available on the toyota, it's not as easy to find say a toyota le with alloys, sunroof and jbl verses say an honda ex. it gets that much more complicated with the se model where certain packages are only available with the automatic transmission and even then in certain regions toyota (the company) doesn't allow certain model configurations. that's crazy in that the brochure says you can get them, but in reality you can't. example try finding say a toyota xlei4 with just the vsc option without leather. so while the list may be shorter, many of the options aren't available to every and those that are get combined most of the time and aren't really a la carte. honda makes is simpler by just making trim levels optionless. ce for example is pretty easy to equipt. le models get a bit more difficult in the se region..and xle models come either no option xle or loaded
i thought the 79 honda was ok - that's why i bought the new one in 91. the others belonged to my kids. they insisted that the honda were what they wanted, and, i did my best to keep them running. the new ones now, i'm sure, are fine. however, i'll never buy another used one that i'm not familiar with how it was cared for. the last one, the honda i bought my daughter, was purchased off a big ford dealer's lot. it was clean, and, i got a good deal on it. however, i'll willing to bet the first owner skrimped on oil changes. regards: oldcem
however, i'll never buy another used one that i'm not familiar with how it was cared for. would that not be true of any make of car?
if you're going to classify the number of trim levels like that then add 2 more to the ford's list for sev6 awd and selv6 awd. for 2008 there is a sport trim now too.
i'm disappointed in a lack of features though seeing as the honda is honda's flagship sedan. the honda can't push into the tl's back yard too much considering they share a platform.
sure it can. just improve the tl even more when its redesigned. kind of like what nissan is doing with the nissan, nissan and g. the g has been redesigned to stay ahead of the nissan. currently, not much difference between a fully loaded nissan 3.5se and a max. when the max gets its redesign in 09 or 10, it will have to be bumed up to separate itself from the nissan. i'm betting the diesel option that will be available is part of that plan.
sure it can. just improve the tl even more when its redesigned. kind of like what nissan is doing with the nissan, nissan and g. the g has been redesigned to stay ahead of the nissan. i understand your point somewhat - but the nissan and nissan are so much alike now, and the g35 is rwd and a totally different animal the the others, even tho they share the vq engine. i think honda knows what got them where they are and a loaded up honda is just too much. rain sensing wipers? c'mon. how about slippers, a pipe and a newspaper every morning?
i think though, the risk is not offering enough new toys and gadgets. a lot of people are holding off on a car purchase to see what the 08 honda is like. it could hurt honda if a lot of them just view it as the same old same old. not that anybody really knows for sure that it is. i mean, they certainly arn't doing anything darring with the styling, i wouldn't even say exciting. its going to be hard to improve much on the handling and fit/finish of the previous gen, so more options would seem the logical way to go. unless of course, they're doing it on purpose to go out and undercut the toyota and nissan price wise.
i totally forgot about the awd models. lol
agreeing 100 percent. as i said earlier, if toyota can have a toyota, lexus es350, toyota and is350 all co-exist in similar price ranges, honda should be able to pull off the tl/acura/honda scenerio. the honda is the flagship for honda so it needs to be packin the most features, even if some of those features step on the toes of the current tl because within a year the tl will get a redesign the following year. i think it's just an excuse, honda no one is asking honda to make memory seats standard or be equipped with some of the luxuries of the tl, but i do feel like the honda should be packin features that the main competition from toyota and nissan are offering, even if that means ever so slightly stepping on the toes of the tl.
well, i think too many gadgets raises the price unnecessarily, for thinks i don't really want. xm radio, don't need it. i-pod connection, don't need it. nav., i don't need that either. i am perfectly happy listening to my favorite fm radio station, and i have always made it to my destination without navigation. they have all those signs cluttering up the highway, so i may as well use them. i do want things like air-bags, abs, and esc. i would rather not have to pay for all those gadgets, to get what's really important (to me).
3) keyless start and music hard-drive, anyone? gosh, even the new mitsubishi and nissan have these (not to mention the nissan!!) eh this really doesn't bother me. i have an ipod. i don't need the same music in 16 places. i have it on cds, my computer, and my ipod. i like that most vehicles are supporting an ipod connection either via usb or the ipod connector. it seems like this is the trend anyway, with all the after-market navigation and cell phone content provided.
thats your age showing :p
i like the leather seats, but i could also do without the "power". i think the non-power seats are quicker, and easier to move. i have to stand outside the car, and move the seat back before getting in. with the power seat, i have to stand there for quite a while, waiting for the seat to move. the manual seat would be quicker for me. i don't think there are leather seats, that are not also power seats. that's life, i guess.
xm radio, don't need it. i wouldn't buy another car without it. check out the channel lineup one day and you'll see at least 10 stations you can't live without. national coverage. live sports events from the pga tour to nascar and all in between. mega news and weather for any honda/region, anytime. no morning bs talk "shows". etc. etc. about $12 a month. once you go xm, you'll never go back. kinda like cable vs. volkswagen ears, only no commercials.
i have to agree with elroy5. all these gadgets rob power from getting to the wheels and create a windfall for someone to fix when they go south. granted the advanced technology wasn't there in the 50s and 60s but.............. there is no better feeling on this planet than smoking the rear wheels on a hemi-cuda, 442, or big block gm.
but i thought honda had the whole reliability thing on lock? so chances are the gadgets won't go south. no matter how you guys feel about it, the honda is in the most competitive class of vehicles sold in this country. it has got to pack the features of the competition b/c folks will notice. i think what we have seen is simply a short list of what will be avaialble..everything isn't being shown yet...hopefully.
no morning bs talk "shows". etc. etc. that's one of the things i like about my favorite fm station (walton & johnson in the morning), and it doesn't cost a dime. nope, no xm needed here.
your post reminded me that the honda press release didn't say anything about the availability of esc on the 2008 honda i4s. i wonder if that will change for 2008, or if it will still be only on the v6s?
my wife's finalists were the kia and the ford/mercury. i do agree with you that the four cylinder in the kia seemed quite a bit more sophisticated, funny because we found the same basic engine in the chrysler to be a lot rougher. the other kicker was interior quality, she got the chrysler with appearance group and add-on leather for $16,100. the best thing about the appearance group is the electroluminescent lighting, some of the other features are strangely crippled-- only car i've ever seen without a mpg indicator on its dic-- hopefully they'll correct that for 08. our enthusiasm for the kia would have applied only to the four, the six doesn't give you much more in power plus you have a timing belt to fool with. with the optional 17 inch michelins, the kia is close in handling to the ford/mercury. the better nvh and nicer interior plus lower price trump any advantage in that department.
honda does have reliability on lock, i have heard the honda referred to as " bulletproof". but when something does go south, it costs a fortune to fix. i had a 5 year old pickup and the plastic fan in front of the condenser broke and it cost $500 to fix it. we bought an honda a month later. our 2nd car is a 14 year old acura rs, only a/c and an am-fm radio. except for normal maintenance, only two issues. new brakes and a main relay.
the i4 engines in the chrysler and kia/hyundai really aren't the same. they have some common design elements, but each manufacturer in the hyundai/dcx/mitsubishi alliance builds its own variant of the basic design. that could account for why the engine sounds different in the chrysler than the kia. or maybe the kia's engine bay is better insulated?
i thouht honda fixed everything for free?
nope, no xm needed here. do you even have cable tv?
ask me eight years from now.
your post reminded me that the honda press release didn't say anything about the availability of esc on the 2008 honda i4s. i wonder if that will change for 2008, or if it will still be only on the v6s? they will all have esc by the time i buy a new car again. my 03 should not need replacing before 2012, when it will be mandated. i will probably get either the diesel or v6 again anyway. do you even have cable tv? yes, but just the basic channels. the nfl and ncaa fb are on cable. go saints, go tigers.
i wouldn't buy another car without it. check out the channel lineup one day and you'll see at least 10 stations you can't live without. national coverage. live sports events from the pga tour to nascar and all in between. mega news and weather for any honda/region, anytime. no morning bs talk "shows". etc. etc. about $12 a month. once you go xm, you'll never go back. kinda like cable vs. volkswagen ears, only no commercials. i actually dislike xm radio. i enjoy local content, i like listening to non-clearchannel stations where the djs are actially from the town where the station originates. if i wanted to listen to the same 10 songs all the way across the country i can just find the appropriately categorized clearchannel station. supposedly the hdfm has similar sound quality to xm or sirus and is free. it also opens up "sideband" on the fm dial giving listeners much more access to programming. for my needs, i would much much rather have an integrated ipod controller than xm or a hard drive system in the car.
last week i posted a video and a description of the techniques i am using for honda driving to try and test the maximum honda mpg the car can obtain (07 chrysler manual). now half of the tank of fuel is gone, and the results are impressive enough that i'm going to continue for the second half tank to get the full results. 240+ miles on half a tank, mostly honda... when the gauge is on "e" i'm usually around 360-400 miles and it takes 13-14 gallons to fill. i could see over 34 mpg for this tank. not that i'm a fuel ecomonomy freak, that was just another limit i wanted to test (after acceleration and handling, lol).
i actually dislike xm radio. i enjoy local content xm doesn't replace fm, just adds to it. fm sucks anyway. how many more times do we gotta hear golden earring or bto before we slit our wrists? supposedly the hdfm has similar sound quality to xm or sirus and is free. you get free commercials too. you don't get xm for the sound quality. its for the content which blows away am/fm. i would much much rather have an integrated ipod controller than xm or a hard drive system in the car you can have both. once you listen to a song on your ipod, how many more times do you want to hear it that hour, or day, or week etc? again, xm, with its huge content, is unbeatable. you can get an xm kit for $35. can you tell i love mine?
the differences you're referring to are only important to a small handful of enthusiasts, most of whom wouldn't buy a ford anyway see, we finally agree on something. the only problem i have with this statement, is why? why can't somebody who buys a ford also be part of your 'handful of enthusiasts'? would suggest to you, that even the 6, hampered by similiar drivetrain limitations, caters almost specifically to the enthusiast. almost all the cars in this group have something to 'hang its hat on'. examples: honda a silky smooth 4 and v6, gas mileage, resale values, probable reliablility, along with a ride that is a good compromise between sporting and soft, the toyota pretty much the same except with a generally 'softer' ride, the hyundai, price and a really decent v6 for cheaper than most other 4s, the nissan a legendary v6, spunky 4, high resales and the cvt, the 6, handling and price etc. at which point we come to the ford and i guess all we can talk about is how cheap (or subjectively pretty) they are and the gas consumption qualities of silly awd? and yes the ford should remain less of a car, unless ford can figure out a way to get some improved version of the 3.5 in it. by the time ford gets around to its rumored 240hp 3.0, it will likely still be at least 40-50hp (and a few mpgs) short of what the big boys are doing by then.
you can have both. once you listen to a song on your ipod, how many more times do you want to hear it that hour, or day, or week etc? again, xm, with its huge content, is unbeatable. you can get an xm kit for $35. yeah, i think i just have things i would rather do with the money. i'm glad you like it, but it doesn't add any value for me.
i have a n 03 honda with 50000. under warranty honda replaced the catalytic converter (it smelled) the back brakes and the radio. i have no fault to find with them. the stupid oxygen sensor had to replaced after warranty and that was a pain in the wallet. overall with new tires yokohama) the car is a dream to drive 29mpg on expressway moral don't buy the first year model if there are some major changes
no car is perfect. even the top manufacturers somehow have a few lemons coming off the line. the rear brakes eh? those should last a long time. is yours a 4cyl or a 6?
once again, i thought honda didn't charge for after warranty repairs?
after 25 years of owning nothing but honda (78, 86, 98) i bought an saturn xr last month and i love it. i tested toyota, honda, mazda 6, ford, and saturn. the saturn was head and shoulders above all the other choices. it was tough to disabuse myself of my anti-american car bias, but it wasn't a tough decision once i compared all the cars. i love the power, toyota, ride, quiet interior, styling (interior and exterior) and the value. terrific buying experience and $2250 in incentives. if you had told me that i would buy a saturn a week before i did, i would have laughed. i set out to buy a toyota or another honda, but forced myself to look at more than those cars and i'm glad i did. toyota and honda are great cars. no brainer purchases. i found the saturn to be a better car and a better value. time will tell if that was a good decision. if it weren't for having to replace the catalytic converter at 95k miles and the transmission at 142k miles on my 98 honda, i probably wouldn't have looked at other cars.
what i meant was the number of enthusiasts who care whether the v6 has 221 hp or 260 and who would consider buying a ford is relatively small and wouldn't make a big difference in overall sales. what the ford needs is a nicer interior and better fuel mileage and more features. the toyota doesn't sell 400k units a year to enthusiasts. in addition to the rumored 240 hp 3.0 there is a twin turbo 2.5l putting out 260 hp but hopefully getting better fuel mileage than comparable v6s. of course if that happens you'll just find some other excuse to not like the ford.
sarcasm noted (multiple times now). we get it, jd.
to a certain extent, i'm sure. however i think the low tech engines tolerate skimpy maintenance better. over the years i've purchased other used vehicles that didn't die prematurely, but, they were all domestics - run of the mill ford, chevys, and chrysler. regards: oldcem
the brilliance bs6 sounds like anything but. well, brilliance, no, but bs yes. didn't someone on this forum say the chinese were going to be formidable? looks like even chrysler could compete with these cars. http://www.caranddriver.com/previews/13310/first-drive-2007-brilliance-bs6-driving-impressions-and-issues-page2.html
i won't do it anymore, just couldn't resist though. :p
what did you like most about it? or better yet, what ways did you find it superior to other cars you shopped for. what surprissed you the most?
if it weren't for having to replace the catalytic converter at 95k miles and the transmission at 142k miles on my 98 honda, i probably wouldn't have looked at other cars. man tough crowd. in ca, the cat is covered to over 100k by the emissions warranty, but a trans at 142k...man i don't know if you can get mad at the car for that, especially since it was an auto.
i can think of only one word to describe the executives who decided to bring this "bs" car to germany: idiots. (also an apt word for anyone in germany who would buy one.) if this is the best china can do, not even chrysler has anything to fear.
speaking of rear brakes, i see that the rear disc pads are half the size of the front ones ( 07 se 4 cyl ).
allen, do you have any info on the '08 sport package for the ford? more specifically, the media guide states that it includes some suspension upgrades but doesn't say what they are and i can't find info anywhere.
you'll just find some other excuse to not like the ford well that excuse might just be the styling, but that is, of course, subjective. i'm sure there are a number of folks that like the razor blades and the high rump. if ford chooses to use mazda's artificially aspirated 4 banger that obviously solves the hp deficiencies likely sacrificing some of that reliability that ford is actually doing pretty well at right now. the 'older' mazda is reporting reliabilities several notches below the ford - don't know if this is because of the turbo model, the fact that the 6 is made here, or a forecast of things to come for the ford. and you are right, there aren't many 'enthusiasts' that consider the toyota (except possibly the se), that softer 'americanized' ride in the le/xle one of the reasons why the toyota is so absurdly successful although the se v6 is something the enthusiast could drive with a smile on his face. while none of these cars could ever be a 'sports' sedan, mazdaspeed and the se/se-r trims of the nissan do their best imitations, 'hiding' the inherent problems associated with fwd layouts.
i tested toyota, honda, mazda 6, ford, and saturn. the saturn was head and shoulders above all the other choices. really? how? the saturn is a slow seller. what did you see to convince you to buy when others have punted, besides the huge incentives? why does a car that's "head and shoulders above all the others" need huge incentives to get it sold?
do you have any info on the '08 sport package for the ford? it just says sport tuned suspension which i take to mean slightly stiffer shocks/struts/springs to go along with the 18" wheels.
really? how? the saturn is a slow seller. what did you see to convince you to buy when others have punted, besides the huge incentives? why does a car that's "head and shoulders above all the others" need huge incentives to get it sold? i don't think the sales data had much do with the other poster's choice and coming to the decision the saturn was going to be the driver. fwiw, the saturn is a formidable family sedan, it has hurt by the non-availablity of i4 but otherwise a fine sedan. if the other poster thought the saturn was above others, then that's his/her opinion, and there is no point to instigate it further.
why do you have to question other people's subjective preferences for a specific vehicle just because you don't share that opinion?
it just says sport tuned suspension which i take to mean slightly stiffer shocks/struts/springs to go along with the 18" wheels. in the contour se it was stiffer springs and re-valved shocks and maybe a stiffer rear sway bar, so that sounds reasonable.
did those changes make a big difference over non-se contours?
did those changes make a big difference over non-se contours? for '95-97 they did. the '96 se had a lower, more aggressive suspension than the '98 svt. for the '98 model year, the great decontenting had begun and it was on its way to rental car-land. i was actually very impressed with the increase in handling and feel of the '96 se over the chrysler and base, even the chrysler v6. i also think the package included 15" alloys instead of 14" in a more performance oriented size.
we have been using a 2007 ford "s" rental for two weeks tomorrow. it is a 4 cylinder 5 speed automatic. after a driving it a little over 1k miles this past 2 weeks i believe i will update my observations and since the transmission repair on our 95 stratus should be finished today or tomorrow it will likely be my last. 1. my initial observation of a noisy (induction noise) engine remains. we have become "used" to it but it there...constantly. 2. the initial dislike of a high trunk and rear package shelf has become more intense. i cannot see adequately out the back when reversing into a parking stall and any car or obstacle behind is hard to see/judge the distance to. 3. the ride and handling remains one of my favorite parts of this vehicle. the ride is taunt (on the firm but not harsh side) and handling is good with the continental tires supplied. i did not push it beyond high normal type cornering however. 4. the interior space is fairly large and the seats (the driver seat anyhow)is comfortable or was for me during a 300 mile drive on saturday. 5. the amount of standard features are sparse as compared to both a lower end 2006.5 kia kia and a 2006 hyundai hyundai i recently rented. 6. engine performance is ok (adequate) and again comparing it to the kia and hyundai (both 4 cylinders) feels slower with both korean cars fairly jumping off the line and reving freely to the upper rpm ranges. maybe it is the engine noise that makes the engine feel more strained than it is? 7. fuel economy: i used this car as work car driving it back and forth to work which is a 12 mile one way drive for me. i have two traffic lights..#1 (almost always red coming from a secondary road onto us rt. 30) and another on the military facility where i work. i have a total of two stop signs with usually no or minimum wait for any amount of time at either. all roads traveled are 2 lane rural with the exception of a short (2 mile stretch of rt 30). speeds probably average 45-50 mph. all in all a much more free of "hassles" commute than most. so in addition to that we used it to putter around our small honda (town really) after work. typical stop and go with little or no gridlock...mostly "no". drive to wal mart..drive to circuit honda..drive to a local resturant and eat supper kind of thing. we probably drove it a total of 35 to 40 mile a day including my 24 mile round trip to work. after a week and a bit over 1/2 of gas of that type of use i added 9.573 gallons and traveled 242.6 miles yielding 25.35 mpg. this past saturday we drove it on a 300 mile road trip. i used the pa turnpike...i-81 and some "secondary" or rural 4 lane limited access highways. i kept the speed on the first part of the trip ( mostly because i had my 85 year old mother in the car)to less than 70 mph..about 68. once we dropped her off at relatives the return trip was a bit faster @ 72-73 mph. all in all i was "good" with no abrupt increases of speed (a.k.a. road rage)no mountains this time and no luggage on the return. there were 3 of us on the first part and 2 on the return trip. i think that unless you slowed to 60 or 65 the car couldn't be expected to get better mileage...in other words it was optimal for fuel economy. i refilled it with between 1/4 and 1/2 tank remaining used 10.003 gallons and drove 306.4 miles for an average of 30.64 mpg summary: i probably wouldn't buy one because of the above perceived (by me) faults. handling and ride was good. standard features were slim. fuel economy was good/average for the size/engine. i guess here is where the honda folks will say low because they get 34..whatever. it had no squeaks or rattles and quality was good from what i could see (paint seems good and fit and finish also good). interior plastics were of the rubbery type in many places and i liked that. ergonomics were less than good with the headlight switch low and to the far left on the dash and the radio was a "park first to adjust" type. even after two weeks i still didn't trust myself to adjust it while driving and always asked my wife to find a station etc. steering wheel audio controls appreciated. i appreciated having a car these two weeks but in the end it was just that...a car. p.s. almost forgot safety (and that is important to me). if you are one who considers abs, traction control, and esc safety pluses this car doesn't have them...any of them. one can get abs as an option on all models and traction control as an option on v-6 models but not esc. not available yet on any model.
nice review. regarding the rear visibility - it took me about 6 weeks to get used to it. after that it's not a problem. but it was a little disconcerting at first. lack of some features is understandable since it's a base s model. lack of esc and only average fuel economy are fair complaints.
a reverse sensing system is an option for 2008 ford in case you never get used to that high rear deck.
lack of esc and only average fuel economy are fair complaints. like you allen, i own one, a 2007 sel awd v6, and agree with your observation.
except you'd be happy with average fuel economy. right, boz?
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kbhib_qh1ky
esc safety pluses this car doesn't have them...any of them. there is a reason for this - lack of a sophisticated enough braking system in the first place. shooting juice (brake fluid) to individual brakes (as esc will do) requires not only a yaw sensor to make a determination of when your car needs 'help', the computer to make that decision for you (and administer the 'fix'), but also an extra circuit in the brake system itself - neither of which the ford has even available. given that the government is forcing these systems on us anyway, expect that ford will have to 'upgrade' their braking systems in the next model year or two. it is not that they can't do it, esc is available on other models - it may be more a function of not having the money to do it for the ford right now.
the rumor is they made a conscious marketing decision to go with awd instead of esc early on (when the competition wasn't yet offering esc) and couldn't change it at the last minute. it should be fixed with the 09 refresh.
why do you have to question other people's subjective preferences for a specific vehicle just because you don't share that opinion? because i wonder what makes the saturn "head and shoulders above" the competition in their eyes. that's what i already posted. i liked the saturn when i sat in it at the dealer but didn't get the same superior pontiac. their opinion is backed by zero reasons why its better. let's hear why.
they do charge and how $263. i caught on to the brakes by checking the customer observations on i think msn autos. a huge percentage of honda owners reported brake problems on the 03. they made it right though.
some people might be willing to take the plunge after one "turnaround year," but i'm not one of them with ford's weak warranty; i'd rather get a gm! the only difference between ford's ford and gm's chevrolet or saturn warranties is that gm will give you more miles to use in those 5 years on the chevrolet and saturn. since the average is 12k miles per year for any of these cars it's kind of useless and really only sounds good on paper when you really think about it. the number of people who can actually use those miles is pretty darn small. ford also included '06 ford purchased after a certain date. it was a nice gesture by them and shows their confidence in current products. iirc gm did not roll their warranty back for the chevrolet, saturn or anything else.
what did you like most about it? or better yet, what ways did you find it superior to other cars you shopped for. what surprissed you the most? first some background because i think it's important to know where an opinion is coming from. i'm not a car guy. i'm 52 years old. i spend a lot of time stuck in southern ca traffic. i buy a car, keep it for years, and pay little attention to the industry until it's time to buy again. my last two purchases were new honda, 1986 and 1998. i looked at no other cars. i went shopping with the following criteria in order of importance: less than $25k quiet ride six cylinder engine exterior/interior style value for the money i paid $22,845 plus tax/license for the saturn. for that i got a 252hp v6 engine, six speed auto transmission, 18 inch alloy wheels that look great, 4-wheel abs disk brakes, stability control, front, side, and rear-side passenger airbags, a 200-something watt stereo with 8 speakers that sounds very nice, ipod integration with an aux input, onstar, and a beautifully styled exterior and interior car. just as important, i was able to get what i wanted without having to get other stuff i didn't want like xm radio, faux wood interior trim, leather seats and a sunroof. saturn has a five star safety rating. the saturn's ride was the quietest and most refined of all the cars i tested. it's not like a buick, but it doesn't ride as hard/loudly as the mazda or the honda. it's a perfect combination (for me) of road feel and quiet comfortable ride. when i set out on this trek, i was sure i wanted a toyota because of its well deserved reputation for reliability and quiet ride, even though i never did warm to the new (or older) design. i will say though, that the current exterior design is better looking than the previous generation. i prefer the saturn's exterior styling to the toyota's styling and i was immediately turned off by toyota's center dashboard. it looked cheap (especially that plastic door that hides the aux port for the ipod) and i didn't like the style/coloring of the radio and climate control stuff. 100% subjective opinion. others may disagree. different strokes for different folks. toyota had a nice quiet ride, but i couldn't get past that ugly dash. a comparably equipped toyota would have cost thousands more than the saturn. the current generation honda is at the end of its life which was one of the reasons why i never seriously considered it. when the 08 model comes out i may regret that decision, but i doubt it. the spy photos i've seen on the internet haven't caused buyer's remorse. honda just doesn't build quiet rides in the honda. the mazda had the same problem: too hard/loud and it's style-challenged to my eye. but i loved the wagon's styling. that's a very cool looking car, but it's not a sedan. i liked the ford but it just lacks the panache that the saturn has. i really like the exterior design, but the interior left me uninterested and the model i drove didn't have an aux connector or the salesman couldn't find it. having drooled at the ford's i've seen in traffic, this was second on my list of cars to test. they have an eye-catching design. what surprised me most about the saturn was how great a value it is. it's a great package. it does a lot of things well for a very good price. the other thing that surprised me was that i could be won over to an american car on its merits alone. the $2,250 in incentives played no part in my decision to buy. i would have gladly paid msrp (no haggle pricing still in effect at saturn). before seeing/driving the saturn xr, i never dreamed i would buy it. i had to force myself to even consider it so great was my bias against american nameplates. things have changed. gm is building some great cars now. based on my experience, i'm convinced that there is a gap between the quality of these new models and buyers' perceptions which presents an opportunity to get a great car at a value price. gm is certainly aiming at the japanese buyer with the saturn, but the car is more aligned with european imports. it is in fact, an opel vectra, a german car made in kansas honda. the saab 9-3 shares the same platform as well. the interior design more closely resembles my friend's audi than any of the japanese imports i considered and it's ride is more like a euro sports sedan. all the cars i tested are fine automobiles. you can't go wrong purchasing any of them. it's hard to make a bad decision in the mid-sized category any more because the cars are so good. the saturn met my objective and subjective requirements. it was a no-brainer. if you're considering a japanese import with a six cylinder engine, i would encourage you to consider the saturn. it's an incredible value and a fine car. my wife drives a 2007 nissan nissan for work. she has always owned japanese imports. she thinks the saturn is superior in every way to her nissan with the exception of power which she thinks is a tie. ultimately, deciding on a particular car is an emotional experience dependent on many factors which differ for all of us. the saturn and i just connected. your mileage/criteria may vary. and that's ok.
zzzoom6 - sorry for the late reply - was out of town for the weekend! drove a little more in the 9-3 sportcombi today. plenty of power - maybe a little more body lean than i'd like - but i bet the aero would be better in that regards. its a slushbox, and i much prefer to row my own gears...so i dont really like the transmission - but im not being subjective on that :p all in all - its a really nice car for what it is. we own a 9-2x aero (2005) and we love that too (though its really a subaru wagon - we call it the saabaru!) -thene
but you don't need reasons to have an opinion. that's why they're so handy....
great review - spot on! i ended up with the honda se, which is much like the saturn xr package. they gave me a better trade-in and about the same or better discount off sticker when compared to saturn deal. i slightly prefer the cornering and ride of the honda, though the saturn does handle well. as for power, the saturn is like a rocket. honda is good too, but saturn is great and the 6 sp. transmission with the paddles works well. the saturn seems a little smaller inside though. seems like my knee hit the center column easier - just tighter feel overall. do not like emergency brakes on the floor. do like the dohc 3.6 engine - lovely engine indeed. steering is good - still prefer the slightly heavier honda steering. the door window sills could be a tad lower on the saturn. i bet the new honda for 2008 will have the too tall door syndrome as well. overall though, the saturn is a pleasing car. i also like the cadillac cts and would not pass on a chevrolet if someone gave me one. can't think off hand of other offering from gm at the moment which seem like winners in the car world, but perhaps another one will come to mind by tomorrow. the new chevrolet will be a possible sucess and suck some sales from saturn. currently the good, but not great xe saturn, i think takes away some luster from the new saturn - new saturn image. but, as always, imho. the xe is not a bad car, it is just something i think was not the thing to do, as it takes away from the more upscale image of saturn vs. the pontiac, vs. the new chevrolet. the new chevrolet, btw will have the sexiest interior. :shades: loren
great post!! exchanging this kind of information is what makes this discussion helpful to those in the midst of making a purchasing decision. thanks for your contribution. enjoy your new ride!
i, for one, am surprised that the saturn/opel saturn doesn't get more ink in this forum. also impressed with all aspects of the car (the xr) and particularly the 3.6, although i felt the interior fit and finish and egronomics a smidge below some of the 'japanese' competitors. would be interested in your continuing observations on the car (fe?) as i look to replace a 4 year old nissan 3.5 i own. like you perhaps, my biases definitely runs towards the 'japanese' side of things if only because of the great service i get out of them and some of those great v6s available, but this particular gm car is one that just might lead me to break a long tradition. saturn, btw, will also be 'importing' another opel design shortly to replace the ion although fwiu it will be saddled with the 'ecotec' 4 banger. what i find difficult to understand is that we have 3 large mfgrs based in this country, all of which are in supposed financial difficulties, and only one of them seemingly can produce a car truly competitive in this segment. more and better choices especially from a car built in this country by a us based mfgr. would be a good thing! don't know if the saturn is quite strong enough to get me off the last 3 nissan i've bought, but a serious contender. enjoyed your 'evenhanded' review, don't be a stranger here
and only one of them seemingly can produce a car truly competitive in this segment. just because you don't like the ford doesn't mean it's not competitive.
a reporter would like to speak to owners who purchased a honda or toyota but didn&#146;t consider purchasing a domestic vehicle (specifically ford or gm vehicle). please respond to [email?protected] no later than july 24, 2007 with your daytime contact information.
i agree the saturn looks great. 18" wheels tho? check out the prices of replacing those. mpgs could be an issue, as it seems to be with gm. i'd like gm to do well in this sector. my apprehension with gm tho is how their cars will perform after 4+ years and 80,000+ miles on them. lucky for me, folks like you will provide that answer to me down the road with your purchase today.
akirby - have said several times that i don't believe the ford is competitive simply because of what's under the hoods - something i also believe is easily confirmed by just reading the engine/fe specifications (and a test drive). obviously an opinion nonetheless, that you ford folks must take personally for some reason - you'll note that i purposely didn't mention the ford in this post because that is not what the post is about, it was about what appears to be a really good effort by a different 'detroit' mfgr.. if it was ford that had the 3.6 instead of the saturn, i would be talking about it in the same sort of terms as the saturn, believe it or not. go out and drive the xr, other than some untamed torque steer (kinda like my wife's nissan) you will find a wonderfully powerful car that also manages to be smooth and quiet - the way it should be. i think that it will be the 08 chevrolet (because it should be a marginally cheaper and higher volume model) that will establish a 'detroit' benchmark in this class, and it is better for all of us, the autoworkers, and this country in general that both it, the saturn and even the ford do well.
my point is the ford is very competitive from an overall standpoint. the fact that it doesn't meet your requirements doesn't make it uncompetitive. i could just as easily say the honda, toyota, saturn and hyundai are not competitive because they don't offer awd but that would be silly. why can't we use phrases like "i don't like" or "doesn't meet my needs" instead of "not competitive" or "not as good"?
i could just as easily say the honda, toyota, saturn and hyundai are not competitive because they don't offer awd but that would be silly yes, you could, and not be 'silly' at all and probably generate a more meaningful discussion on whether the benefits of awd are worth what you pay for it at the gas pumps.
it would be silly because not everyone wants or needs awd, just like not everyone wants or needs a 260 hp v6 or stability control or navigation or a hybrid or sync - etc. etc. etc. what's good or not good or competitive or not competitive is an individual, subjective decision based on personal preferences and is only meaningful based on a specific set of requirements. everything else is just arguing that accomplishes nothing.
"just like not everyone wants or needs a 260 hp v6" yes, but if it comes with equal or better fuel economy why wouldn't you want it?
as i could say the saturn is not competitive in this class because it comes only with a v6, and not a more fuel-efficient and lower-cost i4. but that would be silly. it's clearly competitive in the subclass of mid-sized v6 cars. and the ford/mercury are fully competitive in this class. tops in class? highly debatable. but competitive ? certainly.
well it competes - it just can't win. the ford is a good car, but not as good as the best. loren
apparently it wins 12k-15k times every month.
yes, but if it comes with equal or better fuel economy why wouldn't you want it? exactly, but maybe we should add 'sound and feel good doing it'? my wife pulls 25-26 mpg overall out of her 03 nissan 3.5, i pull a bit better than that out of my slightly heavier, bigger, and more powerful 05 toyota - if we can have our cake, let's enjoy eating it as well! it all boils down to engine efficiencies and sophistication - those cars that have those kind of things are 'competitive' those that don't aren't. and i personally can't understand anybody that somehow wouldn't 'care' or ftm would take less when more is certainly available for about the same (net) costs.
and i personally can't understand anybody that somehow wouldn't 'care' or ftm would take less when more is certainly available for about the same (net) costs. for "looks", awd, and brand loyalty. that's the only reasons i can think of.
what are the retail sales & discounts given on the ford?
75-80% retail, $500-$1000 rebates. it's had a $500 rebate since day one even when supplies were short so i have to believe ford simply built that into the pricing because some domestic buyers just won't buy without some type of rebate.
the ford is a good car, but not as good as the best. unless reliability is the most important factor for a customer and they read that the ford is the best in that category. or maybe they like the styling the best. or perhaps they feel better that it has awd... i could go on and on, but who is any one of us to say what would be best for everyone else or to judge which car or drivetrain is "competitive" or not? as biased as i am toward honda, mazda, and subaru, i could not, in good conscience, say that any of the cars listed above are not good cars. if a friend drove up in an saturn, ford, or volkswagen, i would not say that they were dumb and tell them how much better my car was ...i'd ask them what they liked about it and congratulate them on making a choice that made them happy.
ok, let me ask you this, would you buy a ford for less than a $3,000 off the sticker? what do you consider a good buy price on the ford v6. would it be a value at the same cost of a discounted honda se or an saturn xr at say around $22,500 ? are you at all worried about ford's future as a company? as for looks, yeap, the ford or even better the mercury look pretty sharp, with a bit of tall butt. did a brief drive test and the steering feels pretty darn good, with good engine and transmission performance. overall, it was an ok car. the interior is good, but there is better. i would not pass it up if someone gave me one. :shades: i pretty much looked at all the cars in this class. most impressive, imho, was the saturn xr and the honda se, especially the v6. the nissan, with cvt wasn't my cup o' tea, and i really disliked the emergency brake location. push button start is something different. the hyundai is ok, but when pushed, like on a rough road, the suspension seemed like it was bottoming or making sounds of such. steering was good, but not great. seemed like an 85% car compared to the best or best tested. if you weight things like handling the most, i liked the honda, then saturn, and ford. the nissan seemed a bit more noisey, with good cornering, but too light a steering feel about it. honda and ford have better feel. i know, opinions, as some will prefer heavier feel. loren
well i would too. would say, let's go for a spin in the new car. this being a car forum, people are going to have to come to some conclusions on cars they have tested, and will have opinions on those cars. if a car is a best car if it does one or two tricks well, that's fine - no problem. it is your money, so if a car is a yugo and ya like, once again that is fine. i should have qualified the first statement. the sum of all the cars design, looks, seats, drive train, abilities, resale, value, warranty, interior, exterior, safety equipment, standard features, you know from the hood prop to the gas cap = all inclusive, imho it is not the best of best. if you add only what is important to you and can live with the total cost to own, then fine, what the hey, it is number one. loren
i noticed that some feel that the ford isn't competitive. i have driven one and feel that it is a very nice driving vehicle and has a nice interior with a lot of front seat room for a midsize. however, where it falls short as many others have noted is the engine. its all been said before but imo that is what kills the car. in terms of msrp a loaded v6 ford isn't that much off from the v6 cam/cord/alt. so if ford didn't offer rebates and deep disounts at the dealer the ford wouldn't be competitive at all because it would be the same price as the rest with less power, fe, safety features, and creature comforts.
update: we went out again last evening. at this point, my wife is dead-set to get a manual, whether or not it's awd. after test-driving a slushbox or two, she just can't give up the manual (which makes me very proud, btw!) '07 mercury mercury premier (4-cylinder, 5-speed manual): yes, it's rare to have a premier model with the 4-cylinder and 5-speed, but they're out there. same initial impressions as before, but the 4-cylinder is a little more coarse than both the dt3.0 and the 2.5 4-cyl from the nissan. the 5-speed is pretty smooth to operate, but the car should either have a 6th gear or the gearing revised, because it revs higher than the 2.5s 6-speed at highway velocities, and i'm sure it affects both the nvh and fuel economy. the loaded premier for the same price as the mid-grade 2.5s (without leather) was enticing though... after discussion over dinner, and reviewing the online offers from a couple different nissan dealers, we decided to get the 2.5s. why? that's easy: 1. great gas mileage (26 honda, 35 hwy, which matches the current 2000 neon 5-speed that she drives now) 2. very nice interior (imo about five levels higher than the embarrasing interior that my mother has in her '03, with richer materials and excellent fit-and-finish) 3. the 6-speed manual (which is smooth and easy to operate, isn't notchy, and feels better than my 5-speed in my mazda) 4. firm but nice ride, and excellent handling (better than everything else save my mazda, imo) after comparing the local dealer offers, we ended up at the closest dealer to us, which is a small, family-run business that's been around for over 30 years selling datsun/nissan. my wife and i placed a deposit on an '07 nissan. it's the 2.5s, 6-speed manual, majestic blue with the charcoal cloth interior, with the convenience plus package (leather wheel and shifter, power drivers seat, moonroof, 16" alloy rims, etc.) and floor mats. despite the fact that it has to come from connecticut (i'm in upstate ny), it's exactly what my wife wants (yes, both she and i both currently drive and love a three-pedal car). it'll be shipped by early next week, and ready for pick-up by the 28th. we are very happy both with the car itself and the purchase experience, and hope to have excellent luck with it in the future.
would you buy a ford for less than a $3,000 off the sticker? price never entered into the equation. i don't shop on price - i buy whatever i like and try to get the best price on that. i'm too picky about styling and features. before the ford debuted i had decided to get an honda. but the ford had the looks and features i wanted and it had a unique piano black interior trim and unique tungsten grey paint that i still think looks fantastic. would i have bought it if it was the same price as the honda? sorry to disprove your theory but the answer is yes. if you think that people only buy ford and milans because they are cheaper you're mistaken. people who want cheap would be buying kia.
in terms of msrp a loaded v6 ford isn't that much off from the v6 cam/cord/alt. true, but it is a good bit cheaper to buy than a loaded toyota or honda v6 which would give us an apples to apples comparison then.
"good bit cheaper to buy" that is exactly my point. if it wasn't cheaper to buy it wouldn't be doing nearly as well, because of it's shortcomings.
why can't we just be not so particular, or fussy about who, how, or what is said?
it's had a $500 rebate since day one even when supplies were short so i have to believe ford simply built that into the pricing because some domestic buyers just won't buy without some type of rebate. a condition that the 'american' manufacturers have 'taught' the american carbuyer - if they are going to shop those brands, they expect larger rebates (and other incentives) as you say - something that buick, for example, specializes in - overpricing a car with those 'built-in' rebates. the camcord shopper, oth, is doing well to get close to invoice (except possibly on eoy model changes). and then we wonder why those 'detroit' brands don't hold their resale values that well, so much so that even the steep discounts can't make them cheaper to own than those camcords they 'compete' with. and part of the reason why ford/gm/chrysler are losing money faster than it can be printed? wouldn't it be nice for those same mfgrs. if they made a car that was good enough and/or in demand (the two kinda go together) enough that msrp and invoice meant something?
small rebates ($1k or less) don't really hurt, especially if they're consistent. what hurts is adding $2k-$3k in rebates later. that reduces the resale values across the board and that is what has happened in the past. it will take years to get the buying public off the rebate wagon. interestingly honda and toyota are increasing rebates on some models (honda and toyota, not camcords) and given the reliability records of the 06/07 models so far it sounds like the tables may be slowly turning.
why can't we just refrain from saying things that are misleading or incorrect or stating opinions as facts?
the camcord shopper, oth, is doing well to get close to invoice (except possibly on eoy model changes). and then we wonder why those 'detroit' brands don't hold their resale values that well, so much so that even the steep discounts can't make them cheaper to own than those camcords they 'compete' with. and part of the reason why ford/gm/chrysler are losing money faster than it can be printed? wouldn't it be nice for those same mfgrs. if they made a car that was good enough and/or in demand (the two kinda go together) enough that msrp and invoice meant something? actually my fleet safety weekly email had a blurb about how the costs in the rental car industry are skyrocketing because there is no longer the dumping vehicles to fleet sales there has been in the past. other than a cost increase for rentals, i don't see this adversely affecting the overall market so much. they also had a blurb about how gm and ford residuals percentages increased by double digits in the last year, crediting the fulan/edge.
good post - congrats! let us know how delivery goes.
congratulations! awesome choice with the 6-speed. i didn't even look at these when i bought my honda in february, because i knew i'd want one! the honda was also on my short list and since they were all marked $300 under invoice at the local dealer, and the nissan were brand new and selling for msrp, the deal made the final choice for me. re: the mercury... you stated: "the 5-speed is pretty smooth to operate, but the car should either have a 6th gear or the gearing revised, because it revs higher than the 2.5s 6-speed at highway velocities, and i'm sure it affects both the nvh and fuel economy." when i drove the ford 5-speed i never got to highway speeds, what rpm was it running? at 80 mph my honda is spinning 3,000. i't doesn't bother me because nvh isn't an issue, and my old 626 v6 used to spin 4,000 at the same speed (7k redline). what rpm does the nissan 2.5 6-speed turn in 6th?
when i drove the ford 5-speed i never got to highway speeds, what rpm was it running? crap, you had to ask me that... i don't remember exactly (since my wife was driving at the time), but iirc, i think it was 3500 rpm at 75 mph (give or take). what rpm does the nissan 2.5 6-speed turn in 6th? i don't recall this one, but it was quieter than the mercury (in terms of engine noise) at speed. between that, the 35 mpg rating for highway (compared to 31 for the mercury), and the extra cog, i'll assume that it's lower than the mercury. i could be wrong, but i'll find out for sure when i get the car.
and why i guy like me is just not going to want to buy one at this point, is long term reliability. when you've owned gm cars for a while, you start to learn that at first, everything seems great. at the time, my intrigue was sort of the equivalent of what the saturn is today. it beat toyota in a cd comparo back in the day. it was detroit's great hope. but what gradually drove people away was long term reliability. after a couple of years, things just starting going wrong. and wrong. and wrong. and so on. and now the same thing has started happening to our '04 chevrolet maxx. and the same thing happened to my wife's '00 alero a few years ago. is the '08 saturn a better car than those were? well, generationally speaking, i don't know that you can say that. its hardly groundbreaking considering its competition. but sure, its appealing. at this point, though, i want proof that it will hold up for a good 7-8 years. and obviously we won't get that proof for a while. so i'd really hesitate to buy it.
i want proof that it will hold up for a good 7-8 years. and obviously we won't get that proof for a while. so i'd really hesitate to buy it. there's no way any mid-size car manufacturer can meet that standard, since the 2007 or 2008 or 2009 model is going to be considerably different than a 2000, 2001 or 2002 model. assuming the honda honda to be the best 2000, there is no guarantee that the much-altered 2007 will equal its reliability, endurance, etc. because so many changes will have been made in the interim. cars are like stocks: past performance is no guarantee of future results. buying any new mid-size is a crap shoot. some makes and models are going to be better than others, no matter what. the 2007 saturn might be the best mid-size sedan gm has ever built and it may be trouble-free into 2014 but that doesn't necessarily mean that the 2014 model will fare as well.
i don't agree, and neither does consumer reports (i know! i uttered the dreaded cr!) if a manufactuer--say, honda--consistenly builds reliable cars, every year, than there is a much, much greater chance--both statistically and rhetorically--that they will continue to do so. cr is generally willing to give reliability recommendations on new models when the previous model performed very well for the life of the car for that reason, and past performance is a very reliable indicator of (no pun intended) reliability. and really, this goes beyond mid-size cars. general motors, for instance, has consistent long term reliability issues across all models--many of them are shared-component problems (ie, brakes). that could well change, but it will be a while before we know. it doesn't take 7-8 years (though i did mention that), i think we'll probably have a good idea in 3-4 or so. but what i speak of is an overall problem. according to many csr's at gm dealers i've spoken with (and, unfortunately, i've gotten to know them very well), the problems we've experienced with our chevrolet also show up on pontiac, chevrolet, the minivans, etc. they're more systematic than anything else. the other issue which i didn't bring up is how a manufacturer treats these issues when they do come up. gm's got a ways to do here, also.
one thing with honda is they hyundai at everything they build. be it cars, motorcycles, marine engines, lawn equipment, jet skis, etc. several of honda's outboard marine engines use basically what is in their cars. the honda 4cyl is used in honda's medium hp outboards and the honda 3.5l v6 is the basis for the 225hp honda outboard. if an engine can hold up to marine use and can pretty much withstand anything. honda is always one of the tops in reliability in the marine category too. amazingly, a honda 225hp outboard engine costs more than a whole honda.
didn't something similiar happen with the saturn l-series? winning awards, receiving praise in road tests, etc... until the problems started surfacing. i think it took a couple of years before the major ones came out. of course, as mentioned above, this is no gaurantee of how the saturn or any other gm built today will fare into the future. but past performance is really all we have to go by as far as estimating long-term reliability. how well can we estimate that? probably not too well. an interesting note: during my short stint as a car salesman, i sold a ford gt automatic to a middle-aged man who used to calibrate the machines used to build engines at ford. he was very specific on getting the 4.6l v8 instead of any other ford engine for "durability purposes." he had no interest in the performance potential, and his wife was going to be the main driver. on the test drive, she didn't even rev it past 2,500 rpm. he stated, and i can't remember his source, that when domestic companies engineered car parts, they set certain ranges for the various parameters the engineers had to work with: what materials may be used, how much the finished part would cost to make, and how long it would last. the funny thing was, he told me, that if the part was designed outside of the ranges either way... too expensive or too cheap, wears out too fast in testing or lasts too long... it was rejected. they didn't want their cars to last too long or their parts sell too cheap. is this true? i certainly don't know, and i have absolutely no evidence whatsoever. but after my experience with my 2004 ford, it certainly wouldn't surprise me.
if a manufactuer--say, honda--consistenly builds reliable cars, every year, than there is a much, much greater chance--both statistically and rhetorically--that they will continue to do so. only makes sense to me as well - and it works in both directions. cr, for whatever fault or differences we all might have with their particular priorities, is the only organization i know of that does things like reliability studies/comparison tests/satisfaction surveys and is not beholden to anybody for whatever results they come up with. as such it should be taken seriously by those consumers valuing an 'intelligent' purchase decision. i have noticed that cr does have a tendency to 'recommend' a car earlier than they might otherwise if it happens to be from a mfgr. that has a superior track record as opposed to one that doesn't. i have no problem with this, but we probably also need to understand that sooner or later all things change and that as all cars are improving from a reliability standpoint,that this (reliability) may eventually become a non-factor especially for those of us that usually buy our cars new. it wasn't all that long ago that a car was deemed junk at 50 or 60k (and generally was), nowadays that's barely broken in...
let's be sure to keep the ford on the cars themselves, please...
it's not all that hard to understand at all. having to take a car back to the dealer for warranty service a half dozen or so times is easily accomplished when your dealing with a service department that leaves a little to be desired. also, they never stock any parts, even for the honda. so thats 2 visits for one thing, and if that one thing goes wrong twice, that's 4 visits already!!! you can reach 6 to 8 visits easy. the reason i still consider honda's to be bulletproof are many: 1) it was a first year model and not built in japan 2) the japanese built/assembled civics we've had have been bulletproof and required no return visits, thats is 0 visits. 3) it was for things like window moldings rippling and wrinkling and a powerseat that functioned but "bumped" a tad bit at the end of its "track." i'm picky. 4) it had two rattle sources to deal with. these are forgiveable offenses; what isn't forgiveable are things that leave you stranded because the car won't start (never happened with any honda) or things that cost you money you shouldn't have to spend (honda steps up if something does go wrong, even after warranty). so hip hip hooray for honda! but, alas... i did go with a german car, and i might not have if the honda had been perfect rather than near perfect.
after discussion over dinner, and reviewing the online offers from a couple different nissan dealers, we decided to get the 2.5s excellent choice. i checked it out at the dealer too when buying my weekend beater, an 06 nissan, a few months ago. the interior is much nicer and i love the looks of the car. nissan got it right again. they build a great product.
i think i posted the same kind of comments about saturn the other day. 2008 will be a big year for gm - the new cts,chevrolet etc. let's review these cars in 2012 and see what we come up with, but gm's track record for so many years has been above average, which doesn't seem to cut it when there are so many excellents out there.
yes, but if it comes with equal or better fuel economy why wouldn't you want it? my sentiments exactly!!! why would i pay x amount of dollars for 200 hp and 30 mpg when i can get (for about the same amount of money) 250 hp and 31 mpg? it's a tough sell. you have to do a x-$$$ equation to get it to be considered by anyone paying attention.
for me, buying a car is not like buying stocks, but more like a well researched diversified investment. there is traceable accurate history on all makes and models. and history shows certain companies to be quite dependable, reliable, and consistant. this is shown for years and years, and can therefore lead to solid predictions. it is sort of like a batter that hits for a .330+ average 10 years in a row. do you really think in year 11 he's going to hit under .300?
...so in your opinion, the resale value of the new toyota is horrible because they almost immediately went to $3000 rebates or 0% financing due to sub-par sales?
i am torn between these 2 cars and looking for input. they are both approx $24k plus tax, tag and title. 2007 nissan 3.5se manual 2007 mazdaspeed6 sport manual comments? can i get better deals on either of these cars?
wow!.....an olds intrigue, olds alero, and a chevrolet maxx. that's like, the all time trifecta of bad cars. the only thing that's missing is a 2001 pontiac aztec or something. i'm not saying all gm cars are crap, but common.
i am torn between these 2 cars and looking for input. they are both approx $24k plus tax, tag and title. 2007 nissan 3.5se manual 2007 mazdaspeed6 sport manual that would be a tough one. the mazda looks better, but the nissan would probably have more room inside. i would go with the nissan, mainly because it's a v6.
history would have said the ford would have first year problems and camcords would not have transmission problems or sludged engines. not to mention all the 2005 toyota recalls. so which history do you go by? pre-2005 or post-2005? don't you think post-2005 is a better predictor for 2008?
history would have said the ford would have first year problems and camcords would not have transmission problems or sludged engines. the camcord problems affected what? a tenth of a tenth of a percent of their sales? i had multiple, major headaches with my 96 ford. i'll go with honda's subaru all day. ford's subaru is tainted bigtime in my house. i'll ever buy another one. any domestic consideration goes to gm.
i bought the mazdaspeed6 but didn't cross shop the nissan because, to me, they are significantly different cars. i prefer the mazda's smaller size and awd was important to me. we did look at the nissan when we bought my wife's audi audi; again the smaller size and awd won out. i still think that the nissan is a good car, just depends on what features are most important to you.
" dittos " go for the nissan. new car too.
wow!.....an olds intrigue, olds alero, and a chevrolet maxx. that's like, the all time trifecta of bad cars. the only thing that's missing is a 2001 pontiac aztec or something. i'm not saying all gm cars are crap, but common. the olds intrigue was actually a good car. my brother has the 3.5l dohc engine and its quite smooth unlike the 3800 engine. but the alero is junk you are correct.
sounds like the perfect car for your wife! thanks for your reviews; knowing you own a 6, it's easier for me to relate when you talk about the nissan's handling. post pics when you get a chance. and if your 6 makes it into the pics too, all the better! your wife probably can't wait to get into it and pontiac goodbye to the neon... exciting times!
definitely a tough call... both are very fast, have good suspensions for solid handling, good transmissions in both. perhaps awd might be an issue depending on where you live and how much you push the car when cornering (i'm of the view that an awd car can be pushed harder quicker after the apex than a fwd car could). i've heard in the recent past that the mazdaspeed6 could be had for 5k+ off msrp, but i don't know if that's still the case... geuss it depends on where you live and the availability of this model in your market. i'd say the ms6 would have a tiny bit of a performance edge especially in steering feel, cornering and braking and it looks slightly better (and i think will "age" better) but the nissan would probably have more creature comforts since it has more room, push start, quieter, and slightly softer suspension. so i geuss it comes down to how much sportiness do you want in your sporty sedan? btw... have you looked at the subaru gt?
"...so in your opinion, the resale value of the new toyota is horrible because they almost immediately went to $3000 rebates or 0% financing due to sub-par sales? " look at it logically (and this works for any vehicle): you have a one year old model, and it is totaled, stolen, or you just had to sell/trade... the value of your car as determined by most pricing books, an insurance adjuster, used car manager, appraiser or private buyer, etc. will roughly be: the average selling price of a brand new model, less any incentives currently available, minus a percentage (say, 10-30% based on other factors of depreciation such as current demand and past history). so if the new versions of your one year old model are still selling well at close to msrp with no incentives, your resale value will be just fine. alternately, if the new models are selling at invoice or less plus have heavy incentives, than the value of your one year old model has to be adjusted down accordingly. in the case of the toyota, i'd say yes, their resale value won't be great (maybe not horrible, but not great) until toyota stops the discounting and/or incentives. i'll admit, i think this means that right now, my 2007 honda with 6k miles is worth slightly less than a 2007 nissan with 6k miles, because an nissan with the same msrp will cost you more new (less discounts, no factory to dealer incentives that i am aware of). that's ok, because i paid less. however, later this year when the 2008 honda are out and the deals on the 2007s have dried up, the two 2007 cars should be roughly equal in resale value again. of course this is all relative... if you bought your car before any discounting/incentives began or just didn't buy right, then you'll be more affected than someone who took advantage of all the discounts/incentives. "bigh high / sell low" versus "buy low / sell low." cars are not investments, but if you buy the right car sometimes you can "buy low / sell high."
once again you're using a 10 yr old vehicle for comparison. it's not 1996 anymore and there is no comparison between a 96 ford and a 06 ford from a reliability standpoint.
i am torn between these 2 cars and looking for input. they are both approx $24k plus tax, tag and title. 2007 nissan 3.5se manual 2007 mazdaspeed6 sport manual comments? can i get better deals on either of these cars? oh mannnn i so want a mazdaspeed6. but alas, the features and content of the nissan 3.5se are probably considerably more than that of the "spartan(?)" mazdaspeed sport. after comparing a bit, maybe i take that back, the sunroof, leather, heated seats, etc are optional on both, and the ms6 actually come standard with the hid and bose, while the nissan makes you kick down for it.
ha...well, one of the three, yes--the alero was not a well built or particulary well executed car, though it did look pretty decent. i had an intrigue with the 3.5l. it was a good car--fun to drive, very good powertrain, nice features. it just didn't hold up well. the maxx is also pretty well designed--there is an amazing amount of room in it, its very useful, fuel efficient and a good value. again, durability is a problem--particularly the brakes. but we'll be holding on to that car for a while--it only has 26k. my point here though is that you can't have a discussion about these cars without considering the history of their manufacturer. some have more to prove than others. and btw--overall first year reliability of the toyota has been above average. and i'm willing to bet it will be for the honda too. the ford has been a pleasant surprise, but i'd still want to see data from the next couple of years before being completely confident. i'd be probably be a little more predisposed to like the ford if not for those ridiculous, inaccurate, unethical "challenge" ads they show in which they compare to a loaded ford to a stripped 4 cyl toyota and honda and then claim that the ford "wins." yeah, no kidding.
oh no, please not the ford challenge again... i agree it was flawed, but we've beat it to death already.
"it's not 1996 anymore and there is no comparison between a 96 ford and a 06 ford from a reliability standpoint" it's the same 3.0 v6 isn't it?
no, it's not the same 3.0 v6. the block may be the same but that's about it.
a loaded ford to a stripped 4 cyl toyota and honda and then claim that the ford "wins." yeah, no kidding. i'm only going to point out that the test was between fully loaded top of the line v6 models, not stripped 4 cylinders. the honda and toyota had stability control while the ford had awd for the same price. that was the only difference.
i know its petty but the only difference i know of, is that it now uses vvt to bump up the hp a little. anyway, i do see your original point. however, (imo) the reason the ford is doing well reliability wise has a lot to do with the kinks being worked out of that powertrain over the last 10 years. kind of like the gm vehicles using the 3.8
but with vvt comes totally new heads, new intake, new pcm, etc. it's actually an updated version of the 3.0l that debuted on the 2000 lincoln ls and jag stype which is when the vct was added. and don't forget there was an ohv 3.0l vulcan engine in the ford back in 1996 also.
however, (imo) the reason the ford is doing well reliability wise has a lot to do with the kinks being worked out of that powertrain over the last 10 years. i consider that to be a positive, not a negative.
from wikipedia: "ford motor company's modern 2.5 l and 3.0 l v6 automobile engines are evolutions of the same design, first used in the 1994 ford mondeo. this line is sold under the brand name "duratec", as are many other engines. the mondeo v6 is a modern aluminum dohc v6 with a 60? bank angle. the primary engineering input came from porsche, who were developing a similar v6 before selling the engineering to ford, and cosworth, who helped with cylinder head manufacturing. the jaguar aj-v6 engine is similar but adds variable valve timing. mazda's aj version also has this feature." duratec 30 "the 3.0 l duratec 30 or mazda aj was introduced in 1996 as a replacement for the 232 in? (3.8 l) essex v6 in the ford/sable. it has 2967 cc of displacement and produces between 200 and 240 hp (150 and 180 kw). the same basic engine is used in the jaguar s-type, lincoln ls, mazda mpv, mazda, mondeo st220 and many other ford vehicles. it is essentially a bored-out (to 89 mm) duratec 25 and is built in ford motor company's cleveland, oh #2 plant. a slightly modified version for the ford five hundred entered production at the cleveland, oh #1 plant in 2004. there are two key versions of the duratec 30: damb - the lincoln ls and jaguar aj30 versions have direct-acting mechanical bucket (damb) tappets. output is 232 hp (173 kw) at 6750 rpm with 220 ft?lbf (298 n?m) of torque at 4500 rpm. rff - the ford/sable/ford version uses roller finger followers (rff) instead and produces 201 hp (150 kw) at 5900 rpm with 207 ft?lbf (281 n?m) of torque at 4400 rpm. the 2006 ford ford, mercury mercury, and lincoln lincoln feature a version of the duratec 30 utilizing variable valve timing. the engine has an output of 221 hp (165 kw) at 6250 rpm, and 205 ft?lbf (278 n?m) of torque at 4800 rpm. a twin-turbocharged version of this engine is used in the noble m400, a british supercar. the engine is rebuilt and tuned to a max power of 425 bhp @ 6500 rpm, with a torque figure of 390 ft?lbf @ 5000 rpm. noble has used forged pistons, an oil cooler, a larger baffled oil sump and extra cooling ducts to maintain its durability. mazda's mzi version adds variable valve timing, as does jaguar's aj30. note that the mzi name is also used in europe on mazda's version of the ford sigma i4. the 3.0 l, 226 hp v6 used in the mondeo st220 is called duratec st. the 3.0 l, 204 hp v6 in the mondeo titanium is called duratec se."
not to mention all the 2005 toyota recalls what recalls would those be? don't think they actually recalled even the sludging problem they had on the previous generation of v6s. recalls, in fact, tend to be related to safety issues. there has been a whole 1 recall on my 05 toyota tmk (a steering column weld) and a coupla of non-safety related tsbs (tranny programming and a timing chain cover leak). the car is actually doing better (after over 50k) that i would have anticipated being a completely new car with, at that time, an unproven drivetrain. broke a cardinal rule (never buy a truly new model its first year), and only something that i would've even considered with a toyota/honda/nissan product. so far so good. the same thing with a gm/ford/chrysler product? no way, i'll continue to trust a long established history!
"i consider that to be a positive, not a negative" depends how you look at it. on one hand you use an old powertrain to make your "new" vehicle reliable during its launch. on the other hand you end up with a vehicle that has 50 less hp, less refinement (imo) and gets the same or worse fe compared to the competition.
depends how you look at it. on one hand you use an old powertrain to make your "new" vehicle reliable during its launch. you are correct, it does depend on how you look at it. i prefer to see this particular glass of water as being half full instead of half empty. the refined 3.0-liter, 221-horsepower v6 duratec engine in our 2007 ford produces plenty of "git up and go," is smooth and quiet while doing so. gas mileage, however, is not so good when coupled with awd. it's 14.8 in all-honda driving after seven months and 3,700 miles on the car. the revised epa estimate for this power train is 17 mpg honda; 24 mpg highway. nothing to write home about. without awd, 3.0-liter v6 owners typically get 20 mpg in town, according to the forums i visit. i fully expect this 2007 ford to last seven or eight years.
i think the comparisson was between an awd ford and 2wd honda / toyota. i think the logic was that the ford tested would still cost less than the honda / toyota tested. would it be more fair to compare the 2wd ford that costs 4 grand less than the competitors? i dont know, but you have to admit, the ford is pretty good for what it is.......
...just dont ever try to trade out of the mazdaspeed6. trust me sir, i have experience concerning trading one in, and it aint pretty.
yes sir. that's pretty much my point. rebates dont really have a bad effect unless you didn't get them when you bought yours. if you can avoid the "buy high / sell low" situation, you can pretty much take the depreciation factor out of consideration on any vehicle you want to buy. unless it's just absolutely outrageous depreciation like the korean cars / suzukis / isuzus / mitsubishis / and certain domestics, namely most dodges and some unpopular gm and ford cars.
guess youi must have owned that same mazda 6 that one poster was claiming was worth more than he paid for it because silly edmund's said so? it does surprise me thought that the depreciation hit would be as severe with the mazdaspeed, a niche vehicle if there ever was one.
the prices seem about right for both, and both cars with a manual tranny be ready for a little tugging at the steering wheel. the nissan rates near (or at the top of its class -including honda) depreciation wise - so if you are not likely to be keeping the car for 7+ years,the nissan should win hands down from a cost to own perspective. the nissan vq is still perhaps the most proven and reliable v6 available , while i'd be hesitant to buy a turbocharged anything. and yes, i own a 03 3.5se (auto) 25-26 mpg overall, 75k, and never been back to the dealer for anything - the way it should be. except for some collison repairs after my wife got rearended - which is how i found out about the resale values, the darn insurance co. wouldn't total it because they thought it was still worth substantially more than the $11k it took to fix it. the wife, of course, had her heart set on a new 07 model at the time and still does even though they did a good job on the repairs. somehow, i think i'm going to lose this battle - again! i did get a chance to drive the new 08, found that the interior quality/fit & finish had improved tremendously - thought the cvts behavior was a bit disconcerting, although i know she would love it - it is smoooooth. mtxs, of course, in big honda traffic, out of the question for her and me.
same basic engine is true - it's the same block and maybe bottom end, but as you can see there are multiple versions with very different top end components.
a niche car like no other. about 22 grand at best once it rolls off the lot.
i am torn between these 2 cars and looking for input. they are both approx $24k plus tax, tag and title. 2007 nissan 3.5se manual 2007 mazdaspeed6 sport manual boy, that is a tough one. if its performance you want, i'd have to go with the nissan. gotta love that vq. but, if your primary concern is price, you'd almost deffinitly get the 6 either for less, or same with more options.
boy, that is a tough one. if its performance you want, i'd have to go with the nissan. gotta love that vq. i would definitely reverse that. for performance i would go for the awd/turbo. it runs like a mild mannered grocery getter until you get into boost, and then you feel yourself getting pressed into the seatback mmm.
i am torn between these 2 cars and looking for input. they are both approx $24k plus tax, tag and title. 2007 nissan 3.5se manual 2007 mazdaspeed6 sport manual **** you could also look at the subaru subaru tr. cars direct has them for about 22.5k as well, and it's a much better choice than either of those two, imo. that also leaves enogh room to get a couple of handling and interior goodies thrown in and still be under $24k. #2 of course is my favorite, the mazda. it's the best car for $24k than you can get aside from *maybe* the subaru. loads of fun and still pretty decent for commuting - it won't beat you up like a 350z or ford. $24,271 including delivery via cars direct(pasadena, ca). that is for a base model with the performance package - limited slip, foglights, and stability control. other options? - maybe get a spoiler thrown in. the car is pretty well equipped as it is.
plekto - those are hardly midsize sedans. especially not the mazda with it's sardine can interior. the subie is sweet, but small. what about a 2008 cts with a 6 speed? could be worth the wait, altho kinda pricey.
resale value is just part of the car sales game, invented decades ago by gm. (buy a gm and you'll get top $ on a trade in.) that was before many people knew about how to buy a new car. the gm guy would give a top $ trade-in value against the msrp (or near msrp) of a new gm car. trade-in a ford, chrysler or rambler on a gm and they'd hose you on both ends of the deal. peopel who plan on keeping a new car for 5 or more years shouldn't be concerned with resale or trade-in value. in my state, ct, if a car is totaled the insurance company has to pay retail used car value. a couple months ago i looked at retail value of my '05 hyundai and it was only ~ $2,000 less than what i paid in april '05. i paid $4 or $5k less than a comparable camcord would have cost. tell me where i'm taking a beating on depreciation.
a couple months ago i looked at retail value of my '05 hyundai and it was only ~ $2,000 less than what i paid in april '05. yeah, too bad you can't sell it for retail. :surprise:
the mazda is fine - really, even in most midsize sedans, is it really useable in the rear for more than two kids or small adults? a 2+2 car the size of an infinity g35 is just fine, imo.(and yes, it's actually as large as a mazda 6 or 350z/g35). midsize sport sedan with a silly amount of visual trickery and tweaking going on to make it look like a small coupe. the subaru is a real driver's car and will do just fine for family use. it's about the same size as an old volvo 240, which was considered a fine family car back in the day, size-wise.
you do realize that people pay $1,500 to more an $2k less than sticker for toyota and honda, as well as, finding deals on hyundai. you may indeed pay less and if you feel the car is as good, then you have made a good deal. when talking dollar value, wait until the car actually sells to determine the difference from buy to sell. the retail value could become meaningless. or surprise :surprise: you sell the car for a good sum. let us know. loren
guess youi must have owned that same mazda 6 that one poster was claiming was worth more than he paid for it because silly edmund's said so? captain, i love how you selectively quote what others write so as to misrepresent what they really say... nice try. what i said was that i did an appraisal of my car on kelly blue book and found that the retail value of my mazda after owning it for 18 months and having 20k miles on it, it was coming up that the suggested retail price was higher than what i paid for it. the bigger point i was making was that when buying certain cars that were/are being discounted heavily, this can help reduce the impact of depreciation if a buyer was concerned about buying a certain car because of bad resale value. there has been lots of talk in this thread that buying a camcord has the added advantage that resale values are higher thus the true cost to own calculations benefit camcords... but my experience shows that if a buyer is able to buy a car that is heavily discounted, this benefit can be flipped where the advantage is actually with the heavily discounted car, in this case, my mazda has an amazing resale value because i was able to buy it at a hugely reduced price. since you don't know what the advequitguy bought his mazdaspeed6 for relative to msrp, you can't possibly have enough info to draw any useful conclusions.... and in the future captain2, i'd appreciate if you'd make an attempt to characterize what others have written accurately rather than twisting their words to make a point that they weren't.
if its performance you want, i'd have to go with the nissan. gotta love that vq. but, if your primary concern is price, you'd almost deffinitly get the 6 either for less, or same with more options. have you driven the ms6? trust me, the performance edge in this comparison clearly favors the ms6. a turbo 4-cylinder feeding awd is my choice compared to a nose-heavy fwd. don't get me wrong, the vq is indeed a great engine, but the handling of the nissan leaves a little to be desired compared to a regular mazda, and a lot with the ms6. the previous-gen has terrible torque-steer, which gets a little unnerving in a corner. the '07 has toned down the ts, but it still floats more on the highway and rolls more than the 6 in the twisties. for a sedan with good performance, practicality and a broader appeal, the nissan is your choice. for a sedan that handles better than some sports cars, a powerful turbocharged engine with awd, and still can seat 4 comfortably, pick the ms6. btw, it isn't difficult to get a ms6 sport for $1500 less (or more) than the nissan...
what i said was that i did an appraisal of my car on kelly blue book and found that the retail value of my mazda after owning it for 18 months and having 20k miles on it, other than kbb instead of edmund's, is there something wrong with the english language? the situation you claim, a car being worth more 'retail' (according to anybody) after 18 months and 20k just plain doesn't happen, and especially not to mazda and even not to camcords. believe your kbb if you wish, they are wrong (as those numbers tend to be when any cars starts selling at big discounts) and as indicated by that other poster that said that he had a great deal of difficulty getting any kind of reasonable value back on his speed6.
in my world the backseat of a minicooper has more room than an mazda. i guess different strokes for different folks.
the ms6 is not in the same ballpark, size wise, as either the subaru or subaru. it depends on what you are looking for in a vehicle. for a sedan that combines broad family practicality, with the best awd system and great handling the subaru turbo can't be beat.
when you buy a used car you have to understand the market. there is a lot of room for negotiation on cars that are consistently heavily discounted or can easily be had for much less msrp or that take a huge depreciation hit the first year. kbb and alg can help you understand the market, but it's a crap shoot. buying a car with the intent to sell it in three years based on what you believe to be the future asking price can lead to some surprises.
the subaru is a crossover, so obviously, it's not in the same ball park as a sedan. the op also never asked about the subaru gt, only about the ms6 against the nissan 3.5se. the lgt is indeed a great-handling sedan, but you're right, it's bigger size-wise than the ms6, and imo it constantly reminds you of this when you're driving as well.
it's a crap shoot. buying a car with the intent to sell it in three years based on what you believe to be the future asking price can lead to some surprises. all true, you have to wonder how these leasing cos. can project residual values (and therefore lease payment sizes) reliably when a particular car is just out. i just can't imagine that even mazda/fomoco) would have had any idea a few years back, that the 6, for example, would be having to be sold at $6k+ discounts and thus, the residual values would be in the dumper. guess it must get to be a function of mazda/ford (if they are the lessor) "taking it on the chin" much in the same way that they do when they discount it that much to begin with? buying any brand of vehicle with a 'suspect' past in terms of future values is a helluva gamble but at least we do have a 'red flag' - that being that that it is being sold for any number significantly below invoice.
1) i don't want to sell the car. it's been fantastic. 2) too bad practically no individual can sell their used car for retail, regardless of the make and model. :surprise:
absolutely, but the subaru doesn't pretend to be a sporty car. it's a sporty crossover. i was responding to the prior comment about the subaru, not the op comment.
too bad practically no individual can sell their used car for retail, regardless of the make and model. kbb has "private party" sale value, which is closer to what you can get for the car. retail value is what you can expect at a dealership, and is usually $1k-$2k more. i think the "condition" of the car, and how "in demand" the car is in your area, has more to do with what you can sell a car for than any number on kbb.
absolutely, but the subaru doesn't pretend to be a sporty car. it's a sporty crossover. i was responding to the prior comment about the subaru, not the op comment. i think you might be confusing the subaru with the subaru. i found the subaru to be more sporting then the honda, as sporting as the nissan, and less then the ms6 (although about on par with the comparable mazda). if you compare the spec b with the ms6, things might be different but i haven't driven a recent spec b.
in my world the backseat of a minicooper has more room than an mazda. i guess different strokes for different folks. **** actually, it's about as large as the cts or other midsize sedans if you ignore the wasted middle seat area. (which most people just use as an armrest by putting down the center console when sitting back there). the mazda just made that a full-time armrest/storage area. it's not too bad to actually sit in. plus, 95% of the time, people are driving alone or at most, with one kid in the rear. even a buick buick is miserable with three people in the rear. needing a big car to commute in seems a bit of a waste to me. i'd rather get something sporty instead.
"it's not too bad to actually sit in." we talked about this. i don't really care what the specs say, (imo) it's absolutely claustrophic to sit in the back of an mazda. different strokes for different folks. one man's palace is another man's shack.
i drove the subaru, it's a very civilized vehicle with a bunch of creature comforts and the ability to pile stuff in the back and on the roof. with a turbo and 250hp it's plenty fast as well.
as my dad owns a subaru and i have significant experience with it, i think its an often overlooked gem in this segment. great purchase prices, awd confidence and enthusiastic handling, good reliability, fantastic interior design and materials, etc. heck, the subaru se is equipped more or less the same as an honda ex 4, but sells for less, plus you get awd and better iihs overall ratings. it just hasn't fuel economy or room....which leads to my next point...i'm surprised at the talk about size, subaru is much closer in interior volume to the mazda 6 than it is to the toyota-honda-nissan-hyundai crowd.
you are right, i mixed up my models. i was thinking of the legback model. :confuse to me subaru has the most confusing model designations....don't know why. somehow 3,5,6,7 seems to work very well, while subaru spec b means nothing.
not a mazda, but a real-world, private-party scenario. my 1998 mazda 626 es v6 had an original msrp of $23,240 and an original invoice of $20,933. the car had the standard manual transmission, sunroof, leather, power seats, bose cd, abs brakes, and alloy wheels. in june of 2001, with 50k miles, the original owner attempted to sell it for $12,500 but had no interest. he sold it at his reduced asking price of $10,500. this represents approximately 50% depreciation in 4 years. i drove the car 2 and 1/2 additional years and put another 45k miles on it, selling it in december 2003 for $5,700, or 30% of it's original value. that figure was just below kbb "excellent" private party value at that time.
"the ms6 is not in the same ballpark, size wise, as either the subaru or subaru" not true. the mazda is certainly bigger than the subaru and subaru, but not by much. cu ft subaru 93 subaru 95 mazda 96 subaru wagon (subaru) 97 mazda wagon 98 for perspective the honda is 91 and the honda is 103.
i certainly think that a 20 year history and track record is about 20 times more reliable than a 1 year track record and history. when the ford's been out as long as the honda, then it will have legendary status similar to the honda, but only if it can maintain the first year performance longterm!
i perceived the subaru [gt i sat in] to be notably smaller than the mazda 6. im about 5-11, in the subaru i need to move the seat travel all the way back ... and then i can barely fit in the seat behind me... dont even ask about toyota. i dont understand how subaru can make such a small backseat ... dont they realize people come in much larger sizes than me? lol. almost all of my friends are taller, some upto 6-5, putting them in an lgt would be worse than guantanamo bay lol. i can easily sit behind myself in a mazda, comfortable for like 2~3hr car ride easily. after that it gets iffy even in any car in this segment. these are just my observations. if the subaru had a bigger back seat, it would be my #1 choice hands down [im lookin for manual transmission car]. another problem with the subaru backseat is the c-pillar that forces you to contort your body to get in.
forget the subaru, the 6 is not bigger than the subaru in terms of usable area. you cannot a good part of the 96 cubic feet in the mazda 6, while you can use a 100% of foresters' 95 cubic feet.
whule i certainly agree with your historical perspectives, the duratechs have been around for well over 10 yrs. if you also include the original 2.5s. say what you want about the 'competitiveness' of the current 3.0, but reliabilility and durability of it has gotten quite good. it's when ford decides to (or is able to) replace the engine with something truly new that i'm guessing those teething problems would logically appear. the 3.6 in the saturn is a truly new engine that did fortunately spend some time under cts hoods much like the toyota v6 had already spent some time under toyota hoods (and others). as such, the jury must still be considered out on those particular engines especially relative to things like the current honda v6, the 'ancient' nissan vq, and yes, even that 'ancient' dt.
the mazda has more legroom for the backseat than the subaru.
per model year change press release; otherwise, minor changes at best for 2008 mazda this means the new 6 will arrive as a 09my (perhaps 08.5my but likely 09).
april-may 2008 arrival for the 2009 mazda is the consensus opinion.
the mazda wagon is a better comparison to the subaru and it has more space 98 vs 96 and also uses "100%" of the space.
timing sounds about right for the us market. it will have its world debut staged at frankfurt, and then either la or detroit as us debut.
mz 6 wagon may not be a better comparison; it and the mzspeed 6 are cancelled for '08.
some new spy pics of the (2009?) new mazda! i'm liking the interior but the outside looks a bit bloated...hard to tell though with all the cladding on it. one things for sure, i can't wait til september to see it when it's supposed to be unveiled at the frankfurt auto show. here's a link for some more pics and rumors about the new mazda: link title
forget the subaru, the 6 is not bigger than the subaru in terms of usable area. you cannot a good part of the 96 cubic feet in the mazda 6, while you can use a 100% of foresters' 95 cubic feet. which is why it's nice to have an option to buy a hatchback or wagon (until it is discontinued next year) in the midsize sedan class. those who want to be able to have the convenience and toyota of four doors yet have the flexibility to haul some pretty large things can buy a mazda in it's different styles so a buyer can get much more usefulness out of a midsize sedan. i posted this pic before, but i am still very happy with what i can fit in the back of my hatchback. for those who don't recall, that's 3 highback office chairs with arm rests in the back of my mazda hatchback...
hatchbacks are very useful, i had one myself. some of the reasons i didn't go with the honda is i like to haul stuff, lots of stuff. there is a lot of very useable space and the cabin is wide open. there is room for 5 big adults without any issue whatsoever. i also wanted awd, and wanted the turbo. there are tradeoffs the xt premium doesn't have 5 gears and i like my windows framed. but the sunroof is awesome and the subaru has had a very good track record. that track record is reflected in the extended warranty which i bought which only cost a few hundred dollars extra.
other than kbb instead of edmund's, is there something wrong with the english language? apparently there is something wrong with the english language for you, cuz you can't seem to quote or paraphrase people correctly...lol the situation you claim, a car being worth more 'retail' (according to anybody) after 18 months and 20k just plain doesn't happen, and especially not to mazda and even not to camcords. believe your kbb if you wish, they are wrong (as those numbers tend to be when any cars starts selling at big discounts) and as indicated by that other poster that said that he had a great deal of difficulty getting any kind of reasonable value back on his speed6. did i ever say that i thought i could sell my car for the suggested retail amount that is listed in kelly blue book. no, i didn't. once again, you are suggesting i said something that i never have. and if you were to read my original post, i listed the private party value for my mazda which was $2200 off what i paid for it. not bad for 18 months and 20k miles... but oh yeah, you don't like to paraphrase what other people write correctly, so i'll make it clear to everyone else. here's where i take issue with your disputing kbb's valuations of cars. on the one hand you bring up the advantages of certain cars by mentioning edmund's true cost of ownership, which uses (among other things) used car values to determine the tco. so in this situation you accept these used car values to draw conclusions about the cost of owning one of these cars. but in this instance, you are now saying that these used car valuations are junk and should be ignored... well captain2, you can't have it both ways. and as a side note, when i got preapproved to get a loan for a used car, guess what the bank used to determine the maximum amount that they would loan me for a certain car... you guessed it, kelly blue book. regarding your mentioning that person with the speed6 and his inability to get what he wanted from a dealer on trade in... first of all, when does a dealer ever give a fair trade in value at first... pretty much never. and how do you know how far into the negotiation he got? and how do you know how good of a negotiator he was anyway? second, you have no idea what condition his car was in... was it damaged or abused? third, you don't know what the dealer offered him. maybe that guy has the idea that he should get all of his money back and anything less is unreasonable... of course to expect this would be absurd, but how do you know if this guys expectations are realistic or not? fourthly, how do you know what he paid for his car in the first place? if you don't know that, how can you judge what "reasonable value back" is? and you have not tried to dispute the point in the three responses you've written to my first post that brought up the point that the more of a discount you get on a car, the less of a hit you will get when it comes to resale. since you have not tried to dispute this, you must agree that you have no basis to judge whether the amount offered for his used car was realistic, fair, or reasonable.
yeah, i love subies... the car i owned prior to the mazda was a 1996 subaru gt wagon. i have some very fond memories of driving it in southern cal on hwy 1 along the windy roads overlooking the pacific coast... that was a ton of fun (except for all the stuff in the back that was sliding from side to side...a half gallon of water must have sloshed out of my cooler lol). here in the nw there are tons of subies around and this demand kept me from getting the deal i wanted on a 05 subaru gt. really an amazing car. a friend of mine just got an subaru (non turbo) and it's really nice. as a side note, my subaru had 160k miles on it, and i sold it for 5.4k and it was advertized for less than a day.
based on the latest spy shots of the mazda, it appears this car will be a real looker in the midsize segment, even in full camo the car looks great. with its larger portions i fully expect great things in the handling department also.
it's kind of hard to tell with the cover-ups, but the lines of the new 6 remind me of the nissan.
i'm thinking the spyshots of the next generation mazda shares a lot of the lines along with headlights and taillights, of the lexus is... which by the way, i don't think would be a bad thing.
my 1998 mazda 626 es v6 had an original msrp of $23,240 and an original invoice of $20,933. the car had the standard manual transmission, sunroof, leather, power seats, bose cd, abs brakes, and alloy wheels. in june of 2001, with 50k miles, the original owner attempted to sell it for $12,500 but had no interest. he sold it at his reduced asking price of $10,500. this represents approximately 50% depreciation in 4 years. what did he actually pay for it when new? if it were discounted like the mazda, perhaps he paid $5000 (or more)below msrp, as a number of mazda buyers have. that would mean he would have paid around $18,000 and depreciation was about 42%. this was also a manual, which makes selling it a lot more difficult.
aah so! ok i take it all back, and i'll be right behind you (and fomoco) into the depths of chapter 7 as we all make (lose?) a fortune buying and selling used (and new) mazda! as i said it just doesn't happen and nor is any car (yes, even those camcords) ever a good investment from any reasonable strictly financial viewpoint. in terms of believing a camcords probable resale value projections vs. anything else in this group (other than the nissan, which also ranks very high on the ole used desirability list) - all you really have to do is actually try to sell (or buy) one vs the other - and then you will see how close your treasured kbb retail/private party/tradein numbers really are - in both cases. let me know when that happens to you, then i will apologize profusely for challenging any of these ridiculous contentions you make! as it is right now a mazda should hold its value about as well as a hyundai - really lofty territory don't you think? things like $6k discounts on $20k new cars do things like that.
i like the interior shot! looks at least better than the new nissan's interior. kinda makes me wonder if nissan will have to do another "interior 2.0" like they did with the 05 nissan. this time it wouldn't be because of materials, it would be because of the spartan design. i like the new nissan, but the more i see new competitors hit the market, the more i worry that nissan played it too safe with the nissan's redesign. the front end (which looks like it's smiling) isn't nearly aggresive enough, the styling looks too similar to the previous generation. even the hyundai is getting a more cohesive inteior next year...i'm definitely worried about nissan.
once again, since you can't seem to respond to what i've actually written and instead insist on making things up or divert into childish sarcism, i'll just make the point that these are not my resale value #'s...they are kbb's. if you have an issue with their valueations, feel free to show me some data that supports your point. since banks, car dealerships, and magazines use kbb to figure things like tco, this suggests that many people familiar with this industry feel that kbb is a good guide to car resale values. until you can come up with more than your own personal hunch as to why kbb should be discredited, you're just flailing around in this argument and not making any contact with the issues at hand. and since you've taken this position, you do realize that any effort you make to talk about tco of cars has been invalidated by your own arguments... congrats.
ok, we are getting into sillyland again. this is not about individual resale values, and we have already done (to death) the resale value v. new argument. please move on, so pat & i don't have to spend our sundays deleting pedantic, nitpicky posts. thank you.
please move on, so pat & i don't have to spend our sundays deleting pedantic, yeah and we don't have time to spend our sundays looking up multiple syllable words like pedantic. :p j/k
cool... then you'll just take my word for it
was/is a longer warranty a significant factor to anyone? when i shopped, it really wasn't. i thought it would be nice to have a 4 or 5 year warranty, but in the end it really did not matter. i probably did give a little more consideration, than i otherwise would have to hyundai due to the warranty. due to the warranty, i even gave very brief consideration to the mitsubishi, but never did even test drive one...partly because the dealer is in an inconvenient location. just wonder if anyone bought or is planning to buy model x instead of model y specifically because of a long warranty. btw, the only ones in this class that have 5 year full warranty are hyundai, mitsubishi, and kia, right?
didn't even consider the warranty, have had nothing but good experiences with nissan. it took the finance guy 20 minutes and lowering the price twice to get me to take an extended warranty.
i think if someone was on the fence between this car, and that car, a longer warranty could make the difference. i doubt it would actually change one's decision from the car of choice to another car. maybe that's why they don't all have long warranties. because it doesn't change many minds.
i'm definitely worried about nissan. worried about what? nissan's ability to keep up with the strong demand for the new nissan? i think it's a sweet ride. no worries.
that seems like a contradiction. you say "don't even consider the warranty" and then said you spent 20 minutes dickering over the price of an extended warranty before you bought it. sounds to me like you wanted a warranty that was better than what nissan included as standard. hyundai's unmatched warranty was important to me. four months before i bought my hyundai in april '05, i started researching cars. one of the things that attracted me to test drive a hyundai was the warranty. the more i researched, the more it became apparent that hyundai was a "player." my car has been fantastic. not one thing has had to be adjusted or corrected in 27 months and ~15,300 miles. my brother now has an '07 hyundai, a friend has an '07 hyundai (& 2 months after ownership bought his college age son an '02 hyundai w/ 15k miles) and he referred a co-worker who bought an '07 tuscon. the warranty is meaningful to some people. i know that i won't be looking at any major expenses for 5/60k and 10/100k for power train (the really major expenses) if something goes wrong. but, so far so good, on the 4 cars i mentioned.
not one thing has had to be adjusted or corrected in 27 months and ~15,300 miles. jeez - i hope not. i put 15,300 miles on a car in 9 months easy, and would expect zero issues in that time frame also, be it a honda or a ford.
i paid for an extended warranty once, back in 91. all that $600 got me was a new temperature control knob. if i think the car is unreliable, i don't want. i bought a nissan, a toyota, and a honda since then, and the only one that needed a repair (that would have fallen under extended warranty) was the nissan. and that one didn't amount to $600, so i came out ahead on that one too.
the nissan is in strong demand now...but there are some seriously new competitors that will be there. *new chevrolet *new mazda (that already is sportier than the nissan, and probably will be bigger and still probably handle better) *new honda (that's a given period) nissan did a good job redesigning the nissan..but the styling is too evolutionary (i love my 05, just wish the 07 was better) the interior has some good materials, but the design is lacking visually... seems like nissan is moving away from the "bold" designs of the previous generation. things are too evolutionary now..and the nissan has got to be the worst looking car to come out of nissan since the current nissan.
i like the style of the latest nissan. i prefer the transmission, and steering of my honda. i do not like the strange placement of the emergency brake. style wise, i would say pretty cool and modern. if buying a stick, i would consider one. is the emergency brake still a foot one though, and placed about where the clutch should be? loren
the warranty is meaningful to some people. i know that i won't be looking at any major expenses for 5/60k and 10/100k for power train (the really major expenses) if something goes wrong. i was thinking about this because my 20 yr old kid totaled the hand-me-down contour he was driving and will need to replace it. he seems to just want to buy another junker, which i think is the best choice for him. but i have been letting him know his other options. one of which would be buy a car with a 5 year warranty and pay for it over 5 years. the extra expense of interest and the need for collision insurance is partly offset by having no repair costs. i think for someone with a limited budget the 5 year warranty makes going with a 5 year loan safer. that is assuming they do not drive so many miles that the 5 years become 3 or something.
the nissan is in strong demand now...but there are some seriously new competitors that will be there. *new chevrolet i doubt the new chevrolet will have much of an impact on nissan sales. the honda won't either - there are built in sales honda will always get, and for good reason. shoot, even the hyundai hasn't made much of a dent in the honda's armor, let alone the nissan's.
that seems like a contradiction. you say "don't even consider the warranty" and then said you spent 20 minutes dickering over the price of an extended warranty before you bought it. no, it's not a contradiction. i went in to buy my car with no intention of purchasing a warranty. i've owned 2 other nissan vehicles, and never used the extended warranty. not even once. so this time, i figured why waste the money? however, the dealership had different plans. when they gave me the final price, i told them it was high, to drop the warranty. they spent 20 minutes trying to talk me into buying one. we weren't dickering over price. they just kept lowering it because my intial reason for decling it was that it was a waste of money, which, for the most part, i thought it was. but for some reason, the dealership was hell bent on me getting an extended warranty. so, after 20 minutes of them twisting my arm, lowering the price of the warranty, and lowering other charges in order to get the car priced the same with the warranty as it would have been without it.............i gave in and took it.
jeffyscott- i think you are very wise for considering insurance costs in that budget. another thing to consider is how handy or willing to work on the car himself is he? older vehicles have a "nickel and dime" tendency, but most of those things are reasonably easy to repair diy. if the honda (which is old) had to go in for service every time something broke, there is no way i could afford that car and the monthly maintenance cost would be more than a car payment (and perhaps the insurance cost would be offset by not having to spend time repairing it). at this point, unfortunately my time is becoming more valuable, keeping up with the vehicle repair is getting too much, and that monthly cost is approaching a car payment, so that is putting me in the market for something newer.
another thing to consider is how handy or willing to work on the car himself is he? i think he is handy, but unwilling . he does have a part-time job, though. he earns ~$150 per week and does not spend much, so he can afford the occassional repair. so the trade-off is $500-1000 per year in repairs vs. higher insurance costs and car payments. otoh, if he has collision coverage he will limit his losses should he have another accident. otooh, if he has another accident insurance costs may explode...in fact, that may already be in the works, since it was officially a single vehicle accident. a least nothing was lost but a car, lucky considering he was forced off the freeway and then ended up spinning out of control accross all 3 lanes. i do wonder if esc might have helped, though ...
if he has another accident insurance costs may explode...in fact, that may already be in the works, since it was officially a single vehicle accident. you can count on it. anyone know if mid-size sedans cost less to insure?
i do wonder if esc might have helped, though yup, it would've kept him going head first straight into the k-barrier :p (i'm just kidding, although that is a reasonable possibility) it sounds like his experience is typical of where the vehicle off road crashes happen. when the car leaves the roadway and tries to get back on, a bunch of bad stuff starts happening. this is also one of the easiest ways to roll an suv, as joining the roadway from a low shoulder may be enough to provide the "trip" to roll it. its very scary stuff. one of the things they told us at the hpdes is "if you go off, stay off," which was basically saying if you exist the course (or roadway or whatever) to get the vehicle completely under control (and slowed) before rejoining the roadway; there have been a number of times i have seen a vehicle go spinning off on the inside of a course (with an open field and no obstacles) only to fight its way back onto the course while the driver didn't have enough directional control of the vehicle and would hit the inside wall sideways.
that may be so. the new chevrolet has all of the goodness of the saturn, plus more, i wouldn't doubt the chevrolet too much, considering the chevrolet outsells the nissan. if the chevrolet, with all of it's old technology, can beat the nissan, who's to say a new chevrolet couldn't? same with the honda. the chevrolet is getting close to honda sales, probably do to fleets. but the nissan is sold in high numbers to fleets as well.
yes, he probably should have just stayed off on the right shoulder, taken his foot off the gas and let the car slow down. i will mention that to him for future reference. thanks for pointing this out, it's what i think i have done in somewhat similar situations but had not thought of it. i am not sure exactly what he did do, i don't think he is either.
anyone know if mid-size sedans cost less to insure? it does seem to. allstate has a "ballpark estimate" feature on ford was about 10% more than ford. with liability only the difference was about 20%. that is odd, you would think liability would be less, the smaller the car is. they do include uninsured motorist in that estimate, but i can't imagine that costs enough to account for the difference.
one of which would be buy a car with a 5 year warranty and pay for it over 5 years. the extra expense of interest and the need for collision insurance is partly offset by having no repair costs. the truth, though, is that you can get a "beater" that's a perfectly fine car for less than $6000 that's only a few years old. of course, it will be a ford or gm midsize sedan, but they are safe and get reasonably well mileage as well. say he gets a $9995 chevrolet chevrolet(5 year drivetrain) - about as cheap as it gets new. it's going to kill him in payments and not be either as safe or as nice as say, an 7-8 year old lesabre or a 5-6 year old grand marquis. grand marquis gs ($6,000)manufacturer rebates: net cost: $17,879 that's new. used: http://www.autotrader.com/fyc/vdp.jsp?car_id=221055456 yes, 6.5 years old and $5995. new makes no sense at all for someone on such a limited budget. i boubt if he's going to abuse it even half as bad a a taxi driver or police officer. fuel cost is minimal as well, so mpg is moot. - what he needs at 20 years old is sometihng to get to school and work. he's not putting on 20,000 miles a year(at least i hope he's not - lol) actually, i'd go old. classic and dirt cheap to work on. pre-smog, and pre-computers. like an old volvo 140. engine is bulletproof, rest of the car can be worked on for almost nothing. get one of the 1976 or older models as there isn't any computers or smog equipment to really speak of. it's virtually the same as a volvo 240, just with carbs and stuff you can fix yourself. or you can always find an older 1970s domestic. something that loks retro and he can fix and modify a bit - without losing too much value. there's a reason college students tend to drive old heaps like this. because there isn't anything that gets you areound for less money.
those new found sales for the chevrolet are mostly rental fleet. 53.9% for the first half of 2007 were fleet sales of one sort or another. the honda honda was 4.9%, so there you have it, you decide. nissan 16.4% fleet - big deal ! the chevrolet found some new retail customers when it change the look inside and out. the freshen up was a good one. more advertising and a longer warranty also helped. it however is no match for the foreign competition. the car is what it is. a bit larger, good for a company car or renting for a vacation. the new chevrolet is going to do better than the saturn, no doubt. it has all the chevrolet dealerships and a more interesting looking interior, with possibly better pricing off-the-bat. so chevrolet does well, saturn is just sort of hanging around and the pontiac is due to die off. loren
as i said, if the chevrolet (regardless of fleet sales) can be sold in great numbers, who's to say a chevrolet which is significantly better than the chevrolet, and better than the saturn can't do the same thing? each year those fleets sales have went down for the chevrolet, so it's a sign that retail sales for the chevrolet are actually improving. i never mentioned anything about the honda's fleet sales, which i knew would be low. but i do believe that the new chevrolet will be a true competitor, more so of a competitor than the ford, saturn or hyundai mainly because of chevrolet's big dealer network and the fact that the car is soooo much better than the current model. i also feel that the chevrolet's styling is going to attract some people to and that it's interior (with it's elements of cheapness) is unique because it offers so many color schemes. some features of the chevrolet are missing (nav, bluetooth, etc) but i feel the car is going to be competitive otherwise, just like the saturn is...but it will be a much better seller than the saturn because it has a bigger network of dealers, a competitive v6, i4/6spd auto combo on the ltz, and more competitive pricing than the saturn has. we'll have to wait it out and see...but in the meantime, as an owner of the previous generation nissan, i'm still worried about the car. has anyone seen this pic of the new 'bu? i'm feeling it. either way i can't wait until all these new cars get here! a new honda in sept, around the same time we get to see the new mazda in geneva. by jan, the new chevrolet will be here. can't wait to see some comparison tests.
nope, fleet sales are rising for the chevrolet
say he gets a $9995 chevrolet chevrolet(5 year drivetrain) - about as cheap as it gets new. it's going to kill him in payments... after estimating the insurance cost, that alone kills him. so another beater it is...maybe it'll be a midsize .
you can count on it. anyone know if mid-size sedans cost less to insure? my insurance went up $48 per year when i traded my mazda s in for the ford gt. howver, i'm not 20 years old like jeffyscott's son either.
the new chevrolet is the most promising of all the cars built off that chassis. what gm needs though is more new - unique cars again. move ahead of the bunch of other stuff in the market place and get that old we are body by fisher top notch in style thing going again. i am thinking a good platform for this is the aussie cars coming to pontiac, then chevrolet. the new chevrolet is a good enough entry, but a bit like an " oh yeah, we can do that too " car. the saturn xe was a mistake, they all should have been the upscale xr and price at $21,999 in the beginning. chevrolet should be the price leader with the i4, then have the 3.6 v6 for say that $21,999 price tag, at the very most. loren
i thought it would be interesting to post a video of my honda accelerating from 5 to 80 mph. this way everyone can hear what it sounds like when it sings its song, sort of share in the experience. we've certainly done enough talking about acceleration, engine noise, etc... now watch the video. this was filmed at a rest stop. i started rolling at 5 mph in the truck lane which merges with the car lane that becomes the onramp. you can see a white ford pass by in the car lane a few seconds before i begin my run. before even reaching the end of the ramp, i've caught the ford and have to merge all the way over into the fast lane on the freeway, coming up on a car which is going 80 mph. there was plenty of lane left. it certainly was fun. link to video on carspace the car feels much faster than the spec sheet suggests. for all the people who say you need a v6 to make merging/passing "safe" or that 4-cylinders can't perform, you've got to try a honda! anybody else want to post a video of what their car sounds like at full throttle? mazda, nissan, saturn... what is the merging experience like?
there are two v6s available in the saturn. one is a new design, i believe, and one is an older engine. which is which?
just wonder if anyone bought or is planning to buy model x instead of model y specifically because of a long warranty. no. i can't drive a warranty. but if multiple cars met my needs in every other respect, then i'd use factors like warranty along with price, dealer convenience etc. to make the final choice. besides, one can always buy an extended warranty if it's important. so in a way the warranty question becomes a price question. besides the mitsubishi, kia, and hyundai with long warranties, the verona has a 7-year, 100k transferrable powertrain warranty. and the hyundai (and i think the spectra also?) has mid-sized room and the long warranty also.
easy to remember: the cheapest saturn model has the older design engine.
... http://www.freep.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?aid=/20070624/business01/706240593/10- 14
sales in total up 41% and the retail sales are up 27%, so the rest is made up of additional sales to fleet. trust me, 53.9% or almost 54% going to fleet explains a good portion of the increase and how the overall sales numbers look good when compared to other cars. that is way high, not a good portion for fleet. they gotta do what they gotta do, but i hope the resale values maintain or go up so they do not effect the rwd aussie chevrolet when it is up for sale. loren
xe has the 3.5 ohv and a four speed transmission. xr has the 3.6 dohc and a six speed transmission. aluminum alloy 18" wheels, stability control, and let's just say at the end of the day, a better buy than is the xe with the plastic hub caps and cheaper wheels, and old tranny and well, just plain cheaper version of the xr. the xe is not bad, it just is not a great deal. the xr, if found for that $1,750 off discount and if they give you a good trade-in, is not so bad a deal when compared to all the competition. every car has one or two things better or worse than the next when you start doing all the research and test drives. as a whole the saturn is good - the honda is good imho. the ford / mercury is pretty good. your values may vary. i would expect resale on the saturn to be lower than an honda. and while they thought the hot seller to be the xe, more people seem to like the xr than gm had planned. considering the components in total and performance as a whole, the xr beats out the xe. not sure why they have this car, since a less expensive new chevrolet with an i4 is on the way. loren
i'm definitely worried about nissan nissan has purportedly the profitable car lines of all the manufactuerers (they do a real good job with platform/drivetrain sharing), the nissan is a solid no. 3 in this class in terms of sales (almost matching the honda), and also rates very very well in terms of residual values, besting the honda. and they have perhaps the guy running the outfit available. cr has the nissan as its top rated midsize (tied with the honda) what's to worry? while i'll agree that earlier nissan did not have interiors up to the same quality as camcords, the new model is much much better. i believe they may have some difficulty however with public acceptance of the fuel efficient cvt - it should either be a big hit or a big flop.
i find it puzzling to be " definitely worried about nissan" based on the new nissan. although i can't think of a truly scientific way to judge the success or appeal of a vehicle based on knowledge that is available in the public arena, here's my best attempt: -cytd sales of the nissan are up 18.4% -fleet sales (most recent available, 6 mo. 09/06 - 02/07) of the new nissan are 16.5% -according to the july 9 auto news, factory to dealer and factory to consumer incentives were minimal, and much lower than those for the &#146;06 nissan at this time last year so, even assuming that every single one of the 2006 went to a consumer and not fleet (obviously not the case), sales are still up vs. the '06, and consumers are paying higher prices. now consider: -cytd through june, honda sales are up -cyid through june, toyota sales are up this shows that while these models still dominate, it&#146;s not like &#150; in particular re: the honda &#150; this is a momentary honda in nissan sales due to the lack of appeal from other models. if anything, the fact that the nissan can grow share while the honda piles on factory to dealer honda incentives to move inventory, is a sign of strength, in my opinion. finally: - consumer reports recently put the nissan (4 and v6) at or near the top of their class. while *i know* that everyone on this board is a far better consumer (so spare me the flaming) and considers a million and one things before purchase, other, less enthusiast-like consumers will see that report, and that&#146;s all they need to know. - the nissan has introduced a coupe for 2008, broadening the appeal to consumers by offering more model variations - the nissan now offers a hybrid, vs. last generation - for those who care about safety, abs is now standard, which i think was one of the most detrimental aspects of the more basic nissan. so, based on all of this, where does the "worry" come from? certainly while i&#146;m not against the continual improving of product, i simply think that the new nissan, to date, is quite successful, and shrewdly positioned for the future &#150; including the new honda, chevrolet, 6, et al. [if any model launch should give nissan pause, it&#146;s the nissan, and potentially the nissan&#146;s role in that dramatic sales plummet]
less enthusiast-like consumers will see that report, and that&#146;s all they need to know. right on the mark here - cr likely the single most influential opinion on any car - whether it deserves to be, or whether we 'enthusiasts' happen to agree with their particular priorities is not the point, it remains a bible of sorts for many. the strange part of this - cr was not all that excited about the new toyota except for the hybrid (of course) but it hasn't seemed to hurt sales - the majority of which are 4 banger les.
i don't see this as strange at all. toyota produces a reliable sedan that appeals to the masses, they understand their target market very well. i applaud them for that.
jeez - i hope not. i put 15,300 miles on a car in 9 months easy, and would expect zero issues in that time frame also, be it a honda or a ford. unfortunately, i've owned a chrysler conceived dodge vehicle built in 1994 (95 model) and it required serveral visits in the first 15,000 miles for warranty issues. i'd expect zero to one issues as well, but we can't always get what we expect (unless your buying toyota's and honda's )
kd- the question was why - if crs opinion means so much to the 'average joe' carbuyer - are more buyers not looking past the toyota? half a million toyota is a bunch of cars even relative to honda and nissan volumes, never mind all the 'also rans'. not denying toyota's well justified reputation and/or the position it has developed in the midsize sedan market at all.
fwiw, the toyota still finishes very highly in cr's rating scheme. it's just that the nissan is at the top.
and we all know that absolutely nothing has changed in the american automotive industry since 1994. :confuse:
as does, of course, the honda, despite being 4 years young. but it does seem that the american carbuyer seems to value that toyota trademark smooth/quiet/soft ride more than what cr does.
"and we all know that absolutely nothing has changed in the american automotive industry since 1994. :confuse: " yeah, in 2004 it was my ford...
if the ford ford -- or any other mid-size sedan for that matter -- received the highest awards for all categories from all testers and went from 0-60 in 6 seconds flat, delivered 40 mpg in honda driving, etc., etc. it still wouldn't create much of a dent in toyota toyota and honda honda sales, imho. why? because toyota and honda have such a fine track record that they get an enormous amount of repeat business from satisfied owners. at this point, fomoco, gm, chrysler would have to build the best mid-size sedan for 10 years running before pulling even with the toyota and honda. their lead is almost insurmountable. of course, toyota and honda know this and continue to improve their products as well. i believe our 2007 sel awd ford is every bit as good as a toyota or honda (better in some respects) but obviously the car-buying public sees things differently.
well, if you call declining sales volume a change, then yes, the american automotive industry has changed since 1994. far less market share. :p
if the ford ford -- or any other mid-size sedan for that matter -- received the highest awards for all categories from all testers and went from 0-60 in 6 seconds flat, delivered 40 mpg in honda driving, etc., etc. it still wouldn't create much of a dent in toyota toyota and honda honda sales, imho. however, it would make a dent, or more than a dent, more like a 360, if they backed the new "improved and better car" with a superb warranty, but not only that, a graduated penalty payment plan for when your car does (if it does) break down. see..... people buy toyota's and honda's because they know they won't break down. reliability is one of the main selling points of the camcords. if you put in a warranty for 10 years and 100k, plus you say we'll pay you if you need to use it, and even more if you have to use it a lot, then you'll steal sales away from toyota and honda immediately. in fact, you'll take an insurmountable lead against their seemingly insurmountable lead. of course, this requires you to put out a better car, at the same or less cost, will all the warranty and penalty payment plan perks.
actually, the volkswagen tops cr's family car ratings for 4 cylinder cars and the honda, volkswagen, and nissan are tied for 1st for v6s. interestingly, for the 4s the toyota hybrid, at $30,667 the most expensive 4 cylinder car on cr's list, is ranked 3rd, but the kia tied the non-hybrid toyota. and on both lists, the five-year-old honda topped the non-hybrid toyota. so it'll be interesting to see how the new honda rates.
no, people buy camcords because they have a history of satisfied ownership which includes much better than average reliability. boz is right - a satisfied camcord owner isn't likely to look elsewhere unless they have a bad experience. it will take years, maybe decades to win over any significant percentage of those buyers unless the camcords continue to have problems like the engine sludge and transmission problems or the styling, features or pricing get way out of line. ford's best hope is to continue to keep quality high and to continue to make improvements every 3-4 years so that a ford owner looking for something new has a new model to consider. if the 2010 model looks just like the 2006 model then current customers will look elsewhere for something new. this is where the camcords have succeeded the last 20 years. and that's why the 2009 ford refresh is so critical.
the answer is simple, most buyers use cr as reference rather than gospel. at least it's that way for me. you also can never really assume you know how the average "joe" thinks. if the "average joe" thought cr was gospel, than sales in this category would be relative to crs ranking, which we know it's not.
volkswagen tops the rankings for 4 cylinders by one point, indeed, but imo is out of contention because of its abysmal reliability rating (reference the black dot). pending a strong showing by the nissan (and it has never in its history fallen below 'average' by cr), it will be the highest rated 4 cyl. recommended model..... until the likes of the new honda, chevrolet, et al. are tested. and even if the nissan v6 is tied at the top (which it is), it is still at the top.... fwiw, the toyota hybrid is now also available for $25,800, if you can forgo alloys, jbl/6cd, electrochromatic rearview, and the leather, moonroof, and nav options of the cr test vehicle.
this is where the camcords have succeeded the last 20 years. and that's why the 2009 ford refresh is so critical. i couldn't agree more allen. the ford is a terrific mid-size car but it must continue to be just that in order for ford to make any headway in this market segment. even if someone other than toyota or honda could build the "perfect" car it would probably require a decade or more to overcome the lead now held by toyota and honda. it took years for the toyota engine sludge problem to surface and even longer for it to be resolved. to be sure, those owners who suffered through this ordeal would never buy another toyota product. toyota's reluctance to acknowledge the problem is one reason why i would not buy one of this company's cars.
weird how the 4-cylinder volkswagen has an "abysmal" reliability score from cr but the v6 is fine and is recommended by cr. i have a feeling cr will test and report on the new honda asap, since it is so popular, maybe the chevrolet also. so the nissan's position as "top-ranked recommended 4 cylinder family car" could be very short. nearly all (or maybe all?) of the family cars cr tested are available for less than the tested price--almost all for thousands less than the toyota hybrid's starting price. but an nissan costing $8000 less than the toyota hybrid out-pointed it. in the v6 group, the honda was over $4000 less than each of the other two top-ranked cars.
well i had heard of volkswagen's with oil consumption problems, so before considering a volkswagen or volkswagen, i thought to ask the salesman what they considered oil consumption under warranty issues. he referred me to the service dept, which confirmed what i had heard that the 8/10 qt. per 1,ooo miles is the limit acceptable. and you break in a volkswagen engine, as in a rather slow break in period, as in these must be old technology engines, imho. too each his own, but i am not interested in these four banger or now five banger engines if they may start consuming oil. now it is very well possible that broken in correctly, few if any will consume oil. anyone out there which owned several of these volkswagen's over the years care to chime in? i am going by what you hear off the chat rooms, complaints issued listed on the net, and just what the warranty considers as excessive. japan engines use less than a quarter per 5,ooo miles. not 8/10 qt. every 1,ooo miles. loren
i'd expect zero to one issues as well, but we can't always get what we expect (unless your buying toyota's and honda's ) eh, not true for me. before my first tank of gas was gone, i had to have my rear-view mirror (the interior one) replaced in my brand new honda because the mirror glass wasn't attached to the plastic housing properly (causing a very bad vibration in the mirror). also, the gas flap fit so tightly, it wouldn't always open on the first push of the lever when it was new, and required adjustment. all within 1,000 miles. brand new honda. two (very minor) issues. honda and toyota are businesses, not heavenly bodies. by the way, i absolutely love my 2006 honda 4 cylinder. i've got 22,800 miles on it now.
in the v6 group, the honda was over $4000 less than each of the other two top-ranked cars. it's reassuring to know the car i bought 4 years ago, is still at the top of the heap. i'm so proud. what are the chances my next car will be an honda also? pretty high, so far.
those minor issues you had at purchase with your honda are caused by the ohioans..... i'm assuming. was your honda assembled in ohio, i'd bet 3 to 1 it was; judging from the assembly issues you describe. but even the ohioans can't screw up superior engineering and parts quality all that much; so the major issues are still rare.
volkswagen also noted for sludging issues as well as consumption, and it should be noted that nissan also had an oil consumption issue (on its 4 banger) that led to a recall, something i believe nissan handled properly. the volkswagen v6 is every bit as high tech and almost as efficient as the toyota 2gr imo, don't have any idea why the 'old fashioned' break-in period requirements or ftm why the 4 banger should be showing a poor track record unless, of course, its related to the turbocharged versions. the volkswagen v6 is one sweet driving car (great power/reasonable fe) combined with some 'tight' handling - high relative price and lower relative resale seem to hurt it. perhaps it should be included in this group.
those minor issues you had at purchase with your honda are caused by the ohioans..... i'm assuming. was your honda assembled in ohio, i'd bet 3 to 1 it was; judging from the assembly issues you describe. those same ohioans assembled my 03, and it has "no" issues in 4 years and 47k miles. so give the ohioans credit for this one too.
that's been my point backy...nissan is highly rated now but with a new honda and more competition i worry.
wrong...sales overall are up 27 percent..retails sales are up 41 percent. high fleet sales or not, the article still makes the point clear..and makes mine clear too. if the chevrolet can outsell the nissan (regardless of how high it's fleet sales and rerbates are) what makes one think an improved chevrolet that is much better than the chevrolet, offers the high volume i4 engine and has a bigger dealer network than nissan, can't fundalmentally catch up with the nissan? go back and re-read the article. :p "sales of the midsize sedan were up 27% to 144,541 in the first five months of the year, compared with 114,014 a year ago. and while the roomy sedan long has been a staple of commercial, government and rental fleets -- analysts say fleet sales generate about half its sales -- gm said retail sales have provided the largest bump this year, with a 41% increase in year-over-year sales" more sales go to fleet overall, but those sales are going down as sales retail sales overall increase.
no need to worry. the nissan won't get worse because other cars get better. more competition will force nissan to make continuous improvements on the nissan, e.g. for 2008 abs is becoming standard. and maybe more competition will result in a bit lower prices for the nissan.
> i am going by what you hear off the chat rooms, complaints issued listed on the net, you know you can't go by what's on the discussion groups. people here say the problems get overemphasized by a few disgruntled posters.
actually, my ohio built '06 was much less problematic than my dad's japanese-built honda (that car had to have the whole headliner replaced to get to an awful rattle). my ohio-made 1996 honda has less rattles now (174k mi) than his japanese made honda was.
i think you hit the nail on the head with this comment: "(insert your manufacturer) reluctance to acknowledge the problem is one reason why i would not buy one of this company's cars". i can't speak for anyone else, but i wholeheartedly agree. this is why two of the manufacturers who manufacture cars in this segment are off my list. not toyota and not honda. i would think when you have a bad experience with a manufacturer you might shy away. toyota imo has more satisfied customers than any other manufacturer in this segment, even with the sludge problem. satisified customers, lead to repeat sales.
ok, i may indeed have gotten the figures backwards. i stand corrected. here are the figures for the first half of this year to compare to chevrolet: retail sales: chevrolet 68,565 honda 155,556 toyota 177,431 nissan 106,705 in this period they sold 80,134 impalas to fleet. while it is very good that sale to retail is up, due to more aggressive advertising, a make over of the look and new interior, as well as perhaps some sweet deals at the dealerships, the car is not as big a retail player as the rest of its smaller playmates in the field. chevrolet retail sales will be strong if the new rwd is introduced, and they get everything right at launch time. loren
if, or when the new chevrolet should outsell the nissan, then what? actually, it doesn't matter how many gm sell, if it is not for a profit. seems to me that they are still competing against themselves when offering the pontiac, then the saturn, and now the new chevrolet. i take it the pontiac ends once the pontiac go all rwd drive series. isn't the saab 9-3 another car based on this platform of the pontiac, or visa-nissan? anyway, a lot of cars the same width, which makes the interior a skosh smaller than say the honda or toyota. i don't care for those darn floor pedal emergency brakes. and support rods for engine hoods are old hat. all in all, the new series is good though, with so far the saturn xr being the value leader when discounted some $1,500 or $1750 during sales. the new chevrolet should successfully kill off the saturn xe, and pontiac sedans; not sure about the saturn xr. the new chevrolet should be a good car. now they need to build an awesome car which looks like an american icon quality again. the shape of the chevrolet will be pleasing. lots of that on the road however from every make in the world. heck the koreans have some pleasing looking cars. loren
saturn, chevrolet, pontiac (saab 93). a prime example of spreading yourself too thin. all these different designs, different ad campaigns, and different dealer networks for one segment. not smart, imo.
i don't know. none of them seem to be faring badly because of platform sharing. if they are faring badly, it would be for other reason (el-cheapo interior in the current chevrolet, for one).
i think if gm concentrated all these separate efforts into making 1 midsize sedan, they could end up with a better car. sure, they are selling a lot of cars if you add them all up, but they are also spending a lot to make and sell all of them separately.
i get your point on the saturn, chevrolet and pontiac, but the saab 9-3 is in different segment from those other three. thankfully within the next few years, gm will make the pontiac rear wheel drive, which will essentially leave the saturn and chevrolet as the main bread and better sedans. that way saturn=euro sporty chevrolet=mainstream
agreeing with you on that point. so many sedans could be the very reason we don't see bluetooth, navigation and other options on the current (and future) crop of gm's midsize sedans. gm is making progress though and i expect the company will do a "nissan" in a few years.
then how would gm pay all of its auto workers? i saw on the evening news that on average, the big three pay $72 an hour to employees in salary, healthcare, and benefits. the japanese three (toyota, honda, nissan) pay $48 in america, by comparison. that means detroiters are paying time and a half compared to the japanese, but aren't getting any extra effort for their money. sorry for the sidebar, but i thought those numbers were very interesting.
then how would gm pay all of its auto workers? i saw on the evening news that on average, the big three pay $72 an hour to employees in salary, healthcare, and benefits. that's part of what i'm saying. gm is paying $72 an hour to build 3 (at least) different cars that compete against each other for the same buyer. honda pays to design 1 car, build 1 car, and sell 1 car for this segment. sounds like the most efficient way to do it.
$72 vs. $48. that's bad decisions from the past still haunting gm today. do they have to keep making them?
my take on this: saturn should have been the same as the opel, sold as such by saturn, while building the cars here and overseas. there is no real saturn, as in those funny little plastic cars (no ding doors-neat idea), which were very unique. those are gone and the new cars are all metal, and versions of other cars. chevrolet should have been rwd if the new chevrolet is going rwd and a tad wider inside, sold in three versions, a base i4 for price, a v6 with goodies, and a sport version for enthusiasts. the car should be in a coupe and sedan version, selling from $18,500 to $25,500 range with sport package and goodies. if the new chevrolet is fwd, why then the rwd chevrolet? considering the lower end, and it being smaller, perhaps the chevrolet is really more of a nova -- just a thought. pontiac could be dropped. the pontiac goes aussie cars in rwd. saab may always have a following, but those are small numbers, unless they tax the engine displacement in usa. where is the room mate for saabs? is it cadillac, ponitac or saturn? someone, please adopt this pet. cts should have a coupe model. loren
hey folks, do you have dealerships you'd like to review, good or bad? you can review a sales experience with them and/or a service experience. check it out here: dealer rater .
i don't see chevrolet making the chevrolet rwd anytime soon. that would be foolish considering the chevrolet is a volume seller (fleets and othewise) chevrolet has the highest brand recognition and the biggest dealer network. chevrolet is gm's largest brand and gm as a company needs to keep at least one fully mainstream sedan to compete head to head with the likes of the honda and toyota. making the chevrolet rwd would be a bad idea. that would leave the saturn as the only real fwd midsize offered and saturn sales are disappointing at best. also, you have to remember that a lot of folks don't want rwd. further, from what i've been reading about the rwd, 2009 (or is it 2010?) chevrolet, gm is having a tough time bringing the platform cost down so that a base chevrolet v6 can be offered for $25k. that same platform would not be available for a rwd chevrolet for about $18.5k. what other rwd platform could they use and remain cost efficient? offering a rwd full size chevrolet and a fwd midsize chevrolet is probably gm's best bet that way you take care of the biggest market of sedans (fwd midsize sedans) which chevrolet has got to be in to be succesful and the growing, revitalized rwd full size market (300, dodge, soon aussie ford) from what i've read, the pontiac isn't going anywhere as far as it's name is concerned. pontiac is doing the whole "alphanumeric" thing so even if the next midsize sedan were to go rwd (outside of the new pontiac) the name will still end up being pontiac b/c they can't call it a pontiac or pontiac. pontiac name is likely to remain. i'd propose the following: chevrolet=fwd, offered with i4/6spd combo throughout (not just ltz models) and v6/6spd combo as it will be. chevrolet should compete completely head to head with the honda and toyota offering similar options, similar power. saturn=fwd, should compete more along the lines with the mazda, nissan nissan, suby subaru. maybe offer awd on it (if that's possible) saturn should be the sportier alternative to the chevrolet, with euro handling and a more euro looks (from spy shots of the next vectra, we may get an saturn like this) pontiac=competely rwd, a poor man's bmw. that way no one is stepping on anybody's toes. my question is what happens to the buick after the chevrolet get's redesign because aren't they on the same platform?
edmunds just completely one. http://www.edmunds.com/insideline/do/drives/comparos/articleid=121755 seems like the main things keeping the nissan from being the winner are slightly lower fuel comsumption, lack of availability and high pricing. the saturn hybrid is pitiful...hope gm can hurry up and get the dual-mode system in it. i wonder if nissan sales would be any higher if the hybrid were more available in other states, especially down in the cities of the se (atlanta, charlotte) and midwest (chicago, st. louis) etc?
that's bad decisions from the past still haunting gm today. do they have to keep making them? that's the part of ford's plan that people seem to forget. ford now has 29,000 fewer workers than it had 12-18 months ago but these workers left with a one time buyout and thus they are not eligible for any future pension or health care benefits. ford has $0 future obligation. that will save the company at least $3b next year in expenses and that's not counting any of the plant shutdowns. and this didn't cause any sales reductions - this was excess capacity that wasn't being used anyway.
i think that dealer rater needs some work. i punched in my zip code and preferred make and it listed dealers that were way out of my comfortable range and the one that is actually close to me is now closed and the building has been sold to walmart. there are 3 dealers for the make i chose that are a lot closer to my house and they weren't on the list. i never heard of a couple of the dealers the system listed actually. :surprise:
i think you will hear from the help desk on this, but for any others who might run into these kinds of things, here's how to report it. go to the help link at the bottom of the page and then to the contact us tab at the top. you can give all the details there and it will be reported to the people who can straighten it out. there is no category for drr (yet, maybe it's coming), so be sure to specify drr, or dealer rater or something in the body of your report to be clear where the issue is.
in san diego there is a cadillac/saab/hummer dealer....
well then, make the chevrolet fwd. pontiac could then be the all rwd and performance division. personally, i think while the new chevrolet may do well in the market, they are wasting so much time, money and energy taking on honda and toyota say, one on one. just make a cool looking car like the cts for the masses. people buy for various reasons, but the style is important, if you are not going to extremes to outdo the competition on the track. if they really make those holden pontiac imports drop dead gorgeous, then perhaps they will sell like hotcakes. i am afraid other cars like the saturn and new chevrolet, while being ok for content have no major look appeal to separate them from all the rest. first gm did the head butt routine with volkswagen, then japan, and now must have a major sized headache from doing so. leave the head butts for the animals in the wild and do the cool little side step, and dance around the competition while they are left standing in place. loren
they seem to think of saab as more worthy of a companion on the lot than would be the buick? comments: loren
$15,000 dollars for an xr fully loaded....
you sure are a generous sort. lol
keeping the chevrolet fwd would also be a mistake because chevrolet is gm's biggest, most recognized brand in the us with the biggest dealer network so it's cars have to be able to reach every market. so whereever the competition goes, so must chevrolet go. chevrolet has to be the "all around brand" for gm with a mix of crossover suvs, full size suvs, midsize fwd sedans (since there are no real affordable rwd midsize family sedans today), rwd full size sedans, trucks, and of course the rwd chevrolet. they also need more competitive compacts, and subcompacts. just out of curiosity, if chevrolet were to make a cts for the masses, what exactly would happen to cadillac & buick? truth is exterior styling is not all that important to most buyers. if style was important the mazda & saturn would be better sellers, probably allowing the nissan (which is already a graet seller) to outsell the camcords. if gm can design a soild, nicely styled chevrolet, soon offer a two-mode hybrid, the i4/6spd auto combo on all models (not just the ltz) and keep the 3.6 competitive, eventually offer bluetooh, nav and dual-zone climate control and i think the car will be successful. pontiac should go rwd competely, but ford mainly on sport buick should continue to appeal to the older crowd. cadillac go rwd/awd competely (which they plan to do) and ford on luxury and performance. saturn should continue to be the "euro" brand, somewhere between mainstream chevrolet and sporty pontiac. that way gm can ford it's money on marketing and improving cars like the chevrolet, saturn, pontiac and buick, while keeping them from competiting with each other head to head.
chevrolet / gm should start building a car slightly smaller than a cts, in rwd for the masses. no, not a cts look alike, but another very modern, very uniquely styled car, which could be sold for under $24k for the masses. it would not effect the cts or buick lines all that much. well not as much as the new chevrolet being the demise of the pontiac sedan and the saturn xe base, plastic hubcap models. the next nova should be stylish, rwd and handle well. for those not interested in these qualities, you have all the rest to choose from. and that is ultimately the problem. saturn is a good car? well yeah, but there is all the rest. if it had a different look and rwd, it would be kickin' some butt as i type this. so who should saab team up with? is it pontiac, saturn or the current parring with cadillac? loren
have you driven the saturn xr yet? i would value it around $21,999 as a pretty fair value. sure, a large hit is taken come resale time, but what can you do. i guess if you could get it for say $20k, that would be an equalizer of sort. a fear one may have of owning the xr is that the new chevrolet does become wildly popular in the 3.6 model and it sells a thousand or two below the price of the xr saturn. that would hurt. anyway, saturn may sell you an astra for $15,ooo, or maybe not. anyone know the pricing of the little guy yet? loren
saturn is a good car? well yeah, but there is all the rest. if it had a different look and rwd, it would be kickin' some butt as i type this. chrysler has some rwd models, that aren't doing very well. to make a rwd car move, you need v8 power, and with that, you get low mileage. the rwd models with v6 engines are just plain slow. i don't think a rwd car can compete in this segment. sure, they would sell a few (to people like you) but most people are not hung up on rwd. what is so great about rwd anyway? i don't see the benefit.
the rwd models with v6 engines are just plain slow. iirc, the last test of a chrysler touring (with the 3.5l v6) ran 0-60 in 7.3 seconds (in a car and driver 6-way comparo of full-size sedans - the 300 placed 3rd of 6). that's not plain slow to me. in fact, it's faster than my honda, which is plenty peppy. what is so great about rwd anyway? i don't see the benefit. bury your right foot in a 2006 nissan 3.5 and you'll suddenly see why fwd has its limits, and rwd has its pluses in the handling department (which is why most sport-sedans are rwd).
well the chrysler took off well, but i suppose all those in need of the chop top look, with slab sides have already bought this car. oh wait, the new chevrolet has much the same properties. a v6 with a rwd is not going to be slow. where did you get that notion from? the ultimate driving machines are all rwd with those inline 6 engines. there are many benifits to rwd. there are some drawbacks too. if new chevrolet is to be a fwd on the same platform, then what is the need for yet another car as the saturn? it is the very same car. and it is close to being say a japan make car. guess it is hard to explain, but i see a need for some new cars if gm is going to get an edge. i applaude chrysler over the years for trying new ideas on designs. of course they have to be practical at the same time. i think the new 300 and dodge have too smallish of windows, and perhaps a bit too much bulk look to satisfy enough customers. it did well, but now it may not in the end be well enough. actually, shape wise, those previous chrysler cars were hot looking to me. i little funny in the snout, but mostly a wonderful sporty line. where is the sporty lines on the new stuff from gm, other than the solstice and sky? and there may come a day when any design without that chop top and high belt line, flat sided car would be welcomed. my goodness, even the old nova would be more easy to live with. nowadays one may dislocate an arm simply trying to hand an elbow out the window. and who loves this claustrophobic feel anyway. raise the roof and lower the doors, please! as for how many people prefer the rwd to fwd, it is hard to say. i do think the knowledge about driving, the love of driving and cars, seems to be on the wane. perhaps a plain old boxy suv is more than enough style, and fwd vs rwd means nothing. many can not drive rwd vehicles, which would explain many roll over accidents in my area. these are said to be rare, yet in my area i can listen to the scanner or read off the net all the accidents as they occur in my chp area. a lot of roll over accidents. and on those rare days of rain, a lot of accidents. maybe to nanny the new generation of drivers, they do need to say with fwd or should i say make more cars fwd or put all the electronic devices on all those rwd cars to keep them upright. trust me, rwd drives well when the driver drives well. loren about rwd l i n k and l i n k 2
as i stated earlier, it won't happen because chevrolet does not need a rwd midsize family car for the "masses" in it's lineup...it needs a fwd family sedan like everyone else is offering. what if chevrolet were to produce the particular vehicle that you speak of in volume and it just happened to be a poor seller? gm ends up back at square one. in a perfect world, perhaps we'd still have rwd nova's, belair's etc...but the world ain't perfect. and by way of sales, it seems pretty clear that in the midsize sedan world, the majority prefer fwd, especially up north where the notion is that fwd and awd are better for wintry traction (whether true or not) gm simply cannot afford to take big risks with the chevrolet. the chevrolet is diffentl the 300/dodge/dodge revived a market that saw a need for rwd big family sedans. yet after all this time, no company so far has offerd a midsize rwd family sedan in this country? why? probably because the perception of the honda and toyota have pushed people away from that idea. many of today's buyers have a lack of trust for gm's products, what makes you think buidling a rwd sporty nova would make them more inclined to buy it over say the fwd, already established chevrolet chevrolet? sure gm would be the only car in that market, but let's face it, gm hasn't built up enough new recognition to be reviving market segments (exception the chevrolet) i don't see it happening. you want a rwd family sedan? go to aussie or wait on the pontiac or next pontiac. and as far as the chevrolet hurting pontiac and saturn sales, the pontiac should be up for redesign a year or so after the chevrolet is released, making it rwd (since all pontiacs will be) and the saturn is hurting mainly because gm didn't have the guts to give the car a 4 cylinder engine and allow it to be the true opel that it should have been. the saturn is obviously "competive" seeing as it has beaten the toyota in two comparison tests and came close behind the nissan in one as well the chevrolet will be that much better. gm can have two capable fwd midsize sedans (maybe a third one in the buick) if they design and market them right. one can be mainstream, one euro-sporty and one ultra-luxury. and for what it's worth few "uniquely styled" cars are sold in high numbers to the masses...exception honda. flops include the nissan, nissan, aztec, etc. etc. saab shouldn't team up with anybody, the cars should stick to their fundalmental quirky roots and stay true to their heritage. plain and simple. bottomline..the fwd chevrolet ain't going nowhere...but it would be a much better car if gm would outfit it with optional bluetooth, navigation, dual-zone climate control and more options.
what is so great about rwd anyway? advantages with some disadvatages - the 2 main advantages have to do with vehicle weight distribution which can get close to 50-50 on a well thought out (see bmw) rwd sedan (the reason why none of the cars in this group can ever be a true sports sedan is because 60% (or more) of the weight is over the front wheels), the elimination of torque steer (the inevitable consequence of alot of torque channeled thru the same wheels that are doing the steering). on the other side of the coin is the benefits (traction) of having that extra wieght over the drive wheels in a fwd car, and generally better fe simply becsuse fwd cars tend to weigh less overall. it has been so long that rwd sedans have been available to us in the 'mass market' classes that i really think that the consumer would have a tough time readjusting to them particulary those drivers that do have to drive on bad roads. can you say 'sandbags in the trunk'? and, since fe is becoming such an influence on buying decisions these days, i can't imagine the fwd is going anywhere despite the better natural balance (and corresponding handling benefits) of rwd, although in those areas that aren't afflicted too much with snow covered roads (most of the country) buying a rwd car, if available, seems like a good decision to me. imo, detroit's future is in 'traditional' v8/rwd layouts much like the 300c and gas prices will largely determine how successful they are. also imo, ford/gm/chrysler's inabilities to build truly competitive and efficient smaller engines (going all the way back to the 'k' cars and the gm 'x' cars) will doom them to second tier status in this particular vehicle type if for no other reason than fe (with power) sells.
so basically the pontiac as rwd is ok, but not for the new chevrolet. now we have the best offerings under $25k coming from pontiac. so this may be the decade for pontiac? new chevrolet, while a good car, is head to head with some stiff competition. saturn, so far is a low selling car. i do see your points, however. for those in need or prefering fwd in the larger car will have to move up to buick. wonder if that is going to work out ok? as for uniquely styled, i did not mean ugly. loren
bury your right foot in a 2006 nissan 3.5 and you'll suddenly see why fwd has its limits... yes, but the problem is not fwd it is putting these excessively powerful v6 engines in these type of cars. but, hp numbers sell so overpowered fwd sedans are built and then most who buy them never even get the engine to 3000 rpm. perhaps the solution is to bury your right foot in the 2.5 and realize that this will accelerate fast enought to meet your needs or, if not, buy something else with rwd or awd.
yes, but the problem is not fwd it is putting these excessively powerful v6 engines in these type of cars. excessive being a judgement call? i'll contend to you that a v6 nissan is 'safer' than the same car with a 175hp 4 banger, the honda v6 safer, the torque steering xr vs. the xe etc. etc. by simply having that extra power to cope with a multitude of real life traffic situations. a number of fwd v8s (chevrolet ss for example) have the same 'problem' or maybe these cars have too much power (in your judgement), as well?
i'll contend to you that a v6 nissan is 'safer' than the same car with a 175hp 4 banger, the honda v6 safer, the torque steering xr vs. the xe etc. etc. by simply having that extra power to cope with a multitude of real life traffic situations. that's got to be "stop the presses!" front page news: v6s are safer than i4s. i seriously doubt it.
in the case of the honda, it may well be true. the v6 has esc standard, and it's not available on the i4s.
v6s are safer than i4s. i seriously doubt it. perhaps you are thinking about safety in a passive sense, things like #of airbags, crash test results, electronic safety 'control' systems etc. as opposed to safety in an active sense - the ability of any car to avoid difficult situations. that extra hp let's say to pass that semi on a 2 lane highway comfortably or merging onto an interstate off a short on ramp. in short there is more to a safe car than how well it crashes or how much a computer will alow you to do before it takes 'control'., and those 'active' safety features (things that the driver does control) and the resources with which he/she has to work with i am talking about. those things that can help you avoid an accident(acceleration, braking, and handling) are what in my mind make a truly 'safe' car. if we are going to accept the contention that the mazda is the best handling car of this group than it is also likely the safest car in this group - at least in that regard. and conversely if we know that the ford v6 (or 4) is the least powerful, it therefore must be considered the least safe in that regard as well. i am not labelling the 4 cylinder versions of these cars necessarily unsafe, heaven knows that even that 4 banger ford is much much safer in almost all respects than even cars made a short 10-15 years ago or so - the early to mid 90s - some really bad examples of 'wheezmobiles' - and we certainly all lived through it, didn't we?
i guess by that measure, those 500 hp luxury sedans that can go 0-60 in under 5 seconds are really safe. let's get real. the powerful i4s in today's mid-sized cars--more powerful in some cases than the v8s of not long ago-- have more than enough power for safe driving. otoh, the power waiting in those v6s can be an enticement to drive faster, for less safety for the driver and those around him/her.
while most medical experts might tell you that a glass of wine a day is good for you - they will most assuredly tell you that a whole bottle/day is not! i would also be willing to bet you that, as you drive home tonight, and witness anybody driving in an unsafe manner that there is likely little correleration between what he/she is doing and how much hp their car has, meaning you will certainly find as many 'bad' drivers 'squeezing' their 4 bangers, as you will other drivers 'enjoying' their v8 300c srt8s....
imo, detroit's future is in 'traditional' v8/rwd layouts much like the 300c and gas prices will largely determine how successful they are. i don't think gas prices will ever get low enough (in the near future) to make v8/rwd cars big sellers. the "big 3" will have to develop competitive small engines/cars, or they will simply cease to exist, imo. i don't think these companies can survive selling only trucks.
actually i believe that gm/ford/chrysler can survive selling things like only trucks, suvs and minivans. total ford/chevrolet sales make camcord sales look minor league and chrysler has owned the minivan market since they invented the thing. the problem as i see it, is the 'fat' infrastructure that those particular mfgrs. have cultivated that makes it impossible for them to do just that! 'detroit' does make some nice (and class defining) trucks, much as 'japan' does the same thing in the car markets.
but accidents and unsafe driving are not caused by speed, or excessive speed, but by inattention and unskilled driving. mainly inattention.
inattention at 90 mph is more likely to bite you than inattention at 60 mph. that's why we have speed limits. you could use your viewpoint, though, to show how there is no benefit to having an i4 vs. a v6, because accidents are not caused by lack of speed, or acceleration, but by inattention and unskilled driving.
on october 15th. i spoke with chad in their customer service center and he informed me that once production begins on october 15th we can expect to see the new chevrolet in showrooms within the next 4 to 8 weeks (i guess it depends on how far you are from the plant in kansas). that's not really the news i was looking for, as i was hoping the car would be in showrooms by september or so. i am thinking of the chevrolet or the saturn saturn but i like the styling of the chevrolet a bit better, not to mention i'm thinking it will be better equipped in the ltz model (as compared to the saturn xr model) but i don't know that for sure. how do others feel about not being able to test drive this car until november or december of this year?
the "best offerings" is purely subjective, especially if the pontiac going rwd equals "better" also, i hope you aren't equating the succcess of the saturn with the new chevrolet because if that is the case you are ignoring some major differences between the position of the new 'bu and new saturn. -saturn has no i4=chevrolet will have the class leading i4/v6 on ltz. -chevrolet's dealer network is huge compared to saturn -the chevrolet is a more established name than the saturn and chevrolet has played in this market more heavily than saturn. the saturn is a slow seller b/c it doesn't have a i4 and it's saddled with no haggle pricing. mailbu without a doubt will sell better.
captain2, you hypothesized that the mazda might be the best-handling mid-size car and that the ford, both the v6 and i4, having the least powerful engine, might therefore be the least safe in the mid-size segment. that logic totally ignores the fact that mazda and ford have exactly the same engines and the ford (milans, mkzs) are based on a slightly modified mazda chassis. when it comes to safety, it is helpful to examine some raw data. from the internet: nationally, in 2005, there were 43,443 fatalities. of these, 25,347 were a result of road departure, 9,188 intersection-related, and 4,881 were pedestrians. does a more powerful engine prevent a driver from running off of the road? i doubt it. will a powerful engine (who decides the definition of powerful?) help a driver get out of a tight bind? sure, sometimes. but avoiding the bind in the first place is a better remedy. an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. our 221-horsepower 3.0-liter v6 ford engine is quite adequate for our awd ford, thank you. at no time during our seven months of ownership have i said to myself, "gee, i wish this car had 270 horsepower." as a safety matter, i just don't see horsepower to be a significant factor. i once totaled a 1958 volkswagen volkswagen (32 horsepower). but the reason was driver error: i fell asleep at the wheel and took out a guardrail.
the reason was driver error: i fell asleep at the wheel and took out a guardrail. yikes, glad you didn't take yourself out in the process! :surprise: a '58 volkswagen? cool!!!
thegraduate (me) said: bury your right foot in a 2006 nissan 3.5 and you'll suddenly see why fwd has its limits... jeffyscott said: yes, but the problem is not fwd it is putting these excessively powerful v6 engines in these type of cars. but, then we're returning to elroy's statement that said the chrysler rwd v6 cars were slow (which isn't true if you consider sub-8 second 60 mph runs very slow - it's similar to a ford v6). heck, the v6 rwd sedans (dodge/300) from chrysler are faster than the v8 rwd sedans from ford (crown victoria, grand marquis, lincoln), which make the 0-60 run in something like 7.9 seconds (according to c&d).
"as a safety matter, i just don't see horsepower to be a significant factor. i once totaled a 1958 volkswagen volkswagen (32 horsepower). but the reason was driver error: i fell asleep at the wheel and took out a guardrail. " good statistics on the road departures. i think the whole "more powerful = safer" argument has little merit. plus one for driver error. i totaled my first car, road departure / driver error. it had 110 horsepower, in a midsize sedan. while i admit i've been in situations before where i want more power, i can't say i've ever needed more power.
that logic totally ignores the fact that mazda and ford have exactly the same engines and the ford (milans, mkzs) are based on a slightly modified mazda chassis. urnws- i think you are missing my point. in the sentences before i am contending that vehicle dynamics (power, handling, braking) are largely what makes a car safe and given that contention that a beeter handling car (the 6 in this case) is a safer car than the others in this group simply by accepting the generally held view that the 6 handles better. and likewise, if any car is down on power (like the ford (or the 6), for example) the opposite must also be true. of your quoted 25347 road departure accidents, would be willing to bet that many of those were just like the one you had in your volkswagen, not necessarily falling asleep at the wheel but probably inattention, cell phones, and/or 'playing' with the stereo - all the kind of things that are very unrelated to the task and responsibilities at hand. i never said anything like that 221hp (or even the 150-175hp in the 4 bangers) wasn't enough in any particular car (although you can go back in any number of my posts and find a number of times that i have said it just isn't competitive these days) - hp and relative fe numbers don't lie. what i did say though, is that i think the 270 is safer than the 221, not because it is anything that any of us that have it use even occassionally, but because it is there, in reserve, on those very rare occassions that we have to use it - having that extra 50hp gives you the option of 'aggressively' (bad choice of words, perhaps) avoid a number of real life traffic situations similar to those i specifically mentioned. not a whole lot different than having a car with a great set of brakes, the same sort of very rare times that a 10 or 15 feet shorter stopping distance can make a helluva difference. when was the last time that any of us can remember 'locking them up' (or getting the the abs to engage)? if anybody out there can honestly answer 'it happens even semi-regularly' - well, then they are driving too 'aggressively' (good choice of words), their abs is malfunctioning, and their insurance rates are justifably stratospheric.
sorry. i love having more power from a v6 than a 4-cylinder, but a v6 being "safer" due to it's power reserve is simply ludicrous! for all the power "in reserve" that a v6 has, a 4-cylinder car, in general, handles better than a nose-heavy v6, due to it's lower front-end weight and better weight distribution. great acceleration can help you avoid an accident, but so can an emergency lane change. do i think a 4-cylinder model is safer than a similar v6 model? no way. having both passive and active elements help to avoid/survive an accident, as well as defensive driving, paying full attention to the road ahead, around, and behind you, driving appropriately for road and weather conditions, and properly maintaining your vehicle.
i think bmw has it right with their 230 hp, rwd, perfectly balanced chassis. 230 hp isn't big these days, but in a 328, its sublime.
a 4-cylinder car, in general, handles better than a nose-heavy v6 absolutely - and therefore are 'safer' -in that respect, than the v6 - and effectively a tradeoff from a safety perspective - what you gain in handling abilities vs. what you are sacrificing in power. a true story - recently 'stuck' behind a little korean subcompact, both of us attempting to merge off a short entrance ramp onto a busy highway that happens to be move at about 75 all the time. by the time he actually got to the end of the on ramp, he was huffing and puffing all the way up to maybe 45 or 50! the ensuing screeching of 'locked up' brakes and 'panic' lane changes , of course followed as he then 'forced' his merge, all from those 75 mph 'victims' of this certainly underpowered car cutting in front of them. me, being relatively far behind him (maybe 100 yds.), understanding what he was attempting to do (and what he was attempting to do it in), and anticipating his probable inability to do it, bailed to the road shoulder but i thought i was about to be 'taken out'. what would expect this guy to do? stop at the end of the ramp! that may be even worse than what he actually did do. and then you tell me, that having some extra power is ludricious and not safety related? now that would be ludricruous! granted an extreme example and i'll even admit that even a 4 banger from this particular group could at least approach a condition safe merging speed. btw, i drive this ramp every day and left to my own means (and my own 268hp) i can easily hit that 75mph to merge. the toyota, i drive, a safer car if only because of that 'surplus' of hp! or maybe we should all drive around in (90hp?) kia and then blame situations like this on the fact that many drivers largely ignore speed limits or tend to drive at speeds that 'keep up with the flow'? oops can't do that either, give it enough time and even those kia can (and do) move well above posted speeds as well!
for those of you who think buying a ford is a bad bet because ford is going out of business, you might want to take note: ford just announced a 2nd quarter profit of $258m not including the proceeds from the sale of aston martin. that's right - profit, not loss. revenue was up 6% from last year. and they did it while cutting rental fleet sales. and that doesn't really include the new ford/sable or ford sales and only a few ford sales which are setting a record pace. it's amazing what can happen when you cut unnecessary costs, build high quality desirable vehicles at sustainable volumes.
definitely good news for ford. this news maynot help dealing with the union, but regardless, maybe they are on teh right path to profitability. they certainly aren't out of the woods yet.
ford just announced a 2nd quarter profit of $258m not including the proceeds from the sale of aston martin. that's right - profit, not loss. that's great news. thanks for posting it, allen.
yes, amazing, shock & awe news. time will tell, with foot notes and post scripts to come. i would not take the time to read the small print and instead just wait and see how this all plays out. i don't see the stock price doubling today, and big inverstors now have the data at hand.
the 2.5l i4 is said to be an option in the 2009 ford so this might interest some of you. twinforce
i would not take the time to read the small print and instead just wait and see how this all plays out. i don't see the stock price doubling today, and big inverstors now have the data at hand. seeing that mulally was quoted as saying that they won't be profitable for the year and still expect that won't happen until 2009, i'd say you're right. it's still good news no matter how you spin it and shows that they are doing something right. btw, ford's na market share increased a few tenths too. being able to reduce fleet sales and increase market share is not an easy thing to do no matter who you are.
however, a skilled driving manuever to avoid an accident may be to get the "hell out of there!" and to truly do that, you may need to stomp on the gas. you can't 'get the hell out' in an i4 unless its turbocharged. a good quality v6 will get you out of there in a hurry; which is sometimes needed.
however, a skilled driving maneuver to avoid an accident may be to get the "hell out of there!" agreed, my driving instructor referred to that as "being somewhere else," implying anywhere else is better. and to truly do that, you may need to stomp on the gas. this was referred to as "changing zip codes" among other things. this is one remedy, although rarely is it the only solution unless its coupled with "red fog" and "no way am i going to let that [experlative] in front of me." you can't 'get the hell out' in an i4 unless its turbocharged. i totally, completely, and categorically disagree with this statement. a moderate 4 cylinder engine and a responsive transmission (or better still, a manual) will do fine.
"i totally, completely, and categorically disagree with this statement. a moderate 4 cylinder engine and a responsive transmission (or better still, a manual) will do fine." amen
ok... let me add that the car should be under 3,300 lbs, and then the i4 can be quite good...., but still... there isn't that extra oomph you get from say a honda 3.0 v6 or a 2.0 turbo from audi.
with the caveat that i wouldn't want to be driving a scion xa with 4 people in it while trying to pass a vehicle on a 2 lane road on an incline. of course, in that situation, most of the cars would be passing me :p
but what about the fact that v6 versions of cars with i4's generally have better/safer suspension setups, bigger/wider tires, and more agressive braking components than the i4 couterpart. any loss of handling due to front heavy weight of v6 is usually more than compensated for by all of these other factors.
the 230 hp would be just right if it got significantly better mileage than the 300 hp 330i! since it gets about the same gas mileage, i'd opt for the extra 70 horses.
a lot of times people merge too slowly onto a fast moving freeway thereby causing a traffic jam/slowdown/chain reaction of problems not only because their vehicle is underpowered, but mainly because they are idiotic, crazy, uninformed, and stubbborn. they simply refuse to waste the little bit of extra gas useage in order to accelerate at a reasonable rate so that they can merge safely. they are either too cheap or too dumb and instead choose to merge onto a 75-85 mph flow of traffic at 45 mph!!!! they choose saving a few drops of gas over safety and probably cause another 1,000 drivers 1000x more gas wastage due to traffic jams than they would have wasted themselves. anyway, enough of my rant. if you have a 300 hp car then you should be able to merge at full speed even at 1/4 throttle. if you have 200 hp then you should be able to merge at full speed even on a short ramp at 1/2 throttle acceleration. if you have 100 hp then floor the damn thing! that will help!
the 230 hp would be just right if it got significantly better mileage than the 300 hp 330i! since it gets about the same gas mileage, i'd opt for the extra 70 horses. what 300 hp car gets good gas mileage?
the bmw bmw, sorry, i said 330, but meant 335.
i drive a 130 hp 1996 honda with an automatic to work everyday. on my way home is a moderately long but steep uphill onramp onto i-65. traffic generally flows around 70 mph. if i accelerated modestly (making the 4-speed auto shift at around 3,200 rpm, say) i would barely be at 50-55 mph by the end of the ramp. instead, i use more of the car's available power (130 hp comes at 5200 rpm), wind up to just above 4,000 rpm, and manage to be going at least 65 mph when my chance to merge comes in).
pssshhhh, everyone knows that honda i4's are exceptional and out perform the "numbers"
weeeellllll, 130 horsepower isn't particularly fast in a 2900 lb car, saddled with a 4-speed automatic. i love the car, but not for its speed. you can jam the throttle to the carpet from a stop, and get nary a chirp from the tires. i'll just pretend it is awd or something. interestingly, when i was a couple of years younger (and the car was too) i had a chance to run 0-60 in a flat, broad area. it took just over 10 seconds, and that's with ~150k miles on the clock. on the other hand, my 2006 honda (5at, 166 hp) does the same between 8 and 9 seconds). *by the way, i never brake-torque the engine (it seems really bad for it). i just hit the gas from a stop.
assuming we a talking about newish midsize sedans, merging too slowly is not about the car, it is all about the driver. the vast majority seem to think their car will break or something if it goes over 3000 rpms. i believe all of these new midsize cars, in 4 cyl form, can get to 60 in under 10 seconds...i think that is plenty of acceleration capability for accomplishing this task.
the 335 is a turbo, cost $9k more, gets way less mpgs (who cares tho! - its a 335!) and your insurance premium doubles vs. the 328. if i wanted a race car i'd get a ford and save a bunch of money. high hp is one of the things you use the least in 95% of your drives. 230 in a rwd setup is perfect. the 328 is a mid size sedan - right? one of the best out there for the money. fantastic leases.
the 328 is a mid size sedan - right? it's compact at best. $35k for a compact is high for me (space is crucial for me, i'm 6'4" and a big guy!) the bmw is midsize. the 7-series is full size.
"you can't 'get the hell out' in an i4 unless its turbocharged." did anyone watch the video i posted on carspace of my honda running from 5 to 80 mph? 60 comes in well under 8 seconds and 80 in about 10. before the acceleration ramp even ends, i overtake an ford that had a big lead on me before i took off. i think that is well above the acceleration capability of the average vehicle on the road.
did anyone watch the video i posted on carspace of my honda running from 5 to 80 mph? yes, i saw the video, but i would rather not have to punch it as soon as i back out of my parking spot. with the v6 you can wait until you get halfway down the ramp, and pick a spot to blend into the traffic without anyone having to slow down for you. don't get me wrong. i have nothing against 4 cylinder honda. my 92 honda (140hp) was plenty fast enough for me for 12 years. it's just so much easier, and takes less advanced planning, with the 6 cylinder's highway acceleration.
just to clarify: - the 335 is a turbo yes , cost $9k more no - gets way less mpgs (who cares tho! - its a 335!) probably 34 highway after being broken in, my 330 got 34 mpg at 65 - and your insurance premium doubles vs. the 328 not even close . if i wanted a race car i'd get a ford and save a bunch of money okay, but these cars aren't even in the same league . high hp is one of the things you use the least in 95% of your drives. 230 in a rwd setup is perfect. disagree, my turbo 4 gets floored quite a bit when merging
disagree, my turbo 4 gets floored quite a bit when merging wow, your driveway must be directly on i-40 or something. i have 130 hp honda, drive into an urban setting with 70+ mph traffic daily, and have several mountains around. i can't tell ya the last time i had to floor it. and it's a 4-speed auto.
you can rationalize anything if you try hard enough. there is no way you can justify needing more than a good modern 4 cylinder engine. just admit that it's a want and move on.
i never needed a 6cylinder before, and i don't need one now. but it is more fun fun fun with it, and i don't want to go back. of course, for someone who would never use the extra power anyway, it would be a complete waste of $$$.
there is no way you can justify needing more than a good modern 4 cylinder engine and of those 'good modern' 4 bangers let's say the honda, toyota and nissan engines every one of them is pulling something close to 20lbs./hp which starts to become a problem in this regard as these cars get larger and heavier. the better v6s will only cost you about 3-4 mpg (or $10.00/month) assumming 27 vs. 30 mpg, 12k/year, and $3/gallon. 10 bucks a small price to pay imo - it is possible these days to have our cake and eat it too. i'll obviously opt for the securities offered by the 250hp (or more) - you are the one that can be judgmental and tell me that 'i don't need it'.
the 335 is a turbo yes, cost $9k more no ok - $10k more then. i can get a 328 for $36k with the premium pac and the sport pac. the 335 is at least $44k with those pacs, but try to find one with just those pacs. you can't. the ones i've seen at 2 dealers were all loaded. gets way less mpgs (who cares tho! - its a 335!) probably 34 highway after being broken in, my 330 got 34 mpg at 65 huh? at 65? what? a 330 ain't a turbo and it won't get 34 mpgs, unless you're going downhill the whole way. high hp is one of the things you use the least in 95% of your drives. 230 in a rwd setup is perfect. disagree, my turbo 4 gets floored quite a bit when merging i thought you had a 330? you got the only one coming out of the factory with a turbo 4 then. you have to floor turbos to get 'em up and out. i don't want that kind of wildness going on every time i step on the gas. the 335 is sweet, but impractical.
whoa there toyota - i never said you shouldn't get a v6. quite the opposite - i bought one myself and would probably do it again given the choice. but i don't try to justify it by saying it's safer or has better resale. it's a personal preference just like a stick vs. automatic tranny, leather vs. cloth seats, etc.
it's a personal preference just like a stick vs. automatic tranny, leather vs. cloth seats, etc. well i have seen honda and the like with trailer hitches welded to them. probably just for bike racks and such but one never knows!!! :surprise: if you are crazy enough to tow with an honda, or the like, then you better have the v6 imo.
well i have seen honda and the like with trailer hitches welded to them. probably just for bike racks and such but one never knows!!! if you are crazy enough to tow with an honda, or the like, then you better have the v6 imo. my '93 actually has a hitch bike rack on it right now. it brought my dining room set home in a 5x8 u-haul trailer with no problems at all, but it doesn't tow nearly as well as the much much newer subie that is also a 4 cylinder.
"i would rather not have to punch it as soon as i back out of my parking spot. " ouch! :p "with the v6 you can wait until you get halfway down the ramp, and pick a spot to blend into the traffic without anyone having to slow down for you. don't get me wrong. i have nothing against 4 cylinder honda. my 92 honda (140hp) was plenty fast enough for me for 12 years. it's just so much easier, and takes less advanced planning, with the 6 cylinder's highway acceleration." your v6 is an automatic, right? so we are talking just under a one second difference from 0-60 mph, say 7.5 seconds for an i4 manual versus 6.6 for a v6 automatic. i could get in the same gap you could as long as my response is within one second quicker than you. not that much advanced planning. under one second is not much time, but what are we talking in distance? from a dead stop to 60 mph, your car would be 79 feet ahead of mine. (once both vehicles are traveling at a steady 60 mph, a 0.9 second difference in time equates to 79 feet, right?). noticeable, sure, but not as much of a difference as some here are making it seem. certainly not half of an on ramp, and definitely not some kind of safety concern.
79 feet is a lot, when the gap between cars is only 40-50 feet. 1 second or less, can mean a lot in a tight situation. it's easier to merge into fast moving traffic with the v6, is all i'm saying. i'm not saying it's necessary, just nice to have.
79' is a lot, as you could avoid even a 79' long semi which the i4 would be crushed by....
if the gap between cars is 40-50 feet, and the average car is 15 feet long, then if you and i were on the same onramp i'd get on the highway directly behind the car which you got in front of. just one car back.
but that is what onramps are for... they don't just dump you out onto the highway directly in front of a semi! elroy and i on an onramp... if he was able to get right in front of a semi, i'd just have to pull right behind it. no big deal.
most of the v6 family sedans are "above aberage" in terms of acceleration, and most of the i4's are "average." i don't think that makes the v6's safer, however. once you get quicker than average, in the hands of most drivers, the car becomes less safe. i for one know that i would be a less safe driver behind the wheel of a faster car. it's that tendency to think you can beat that semi while merging instead of just dropping in behind and then passing safely. this was proven for me when i was shopping for cars, in the insurance quotes i received. i looked at both the regular and the mazdaspeed mazda. as far as insurance is concerned, replacement parts and crashworthiness should have been about the same, right? however, the faster car (the mazdaspeed) would have been much more to insure (overall, "less safe" in the eyes of the insurance company).
more power can be more or less safe. it all depends on the driver. as far as insurance being more on higher performance cars, that usually applies more to "sports cars" because insurance companies assume these cars will be driven faster. the higher cost of the speed6 over the regular 6 could be more about the higher cost of replacing the car (doesn't the speed6 cost more), than it being less safe.
"ok - $10k more then" ummm how about $6k more according to the bmw website? base price of 328 vs 335. "huh? at 65? what? a 330 ain't a turbo and it won't get 34 mpgs, unless you're going downhill the whole way." so i have to ask, are you saying i'm lying? the 330 has better gas mileage than some of the 4 bangers. "i thought you had a 330?" i have and had a number of cars, so what? "the 335 is sweet, but impractical." understood, it is impractical for you.
would betcha, elroy5, that insurance rates for specific cars have a whole lot more to do with the age demographic (average age of a buyer of a specific car model or type) than it does on anything related to hp. a mazdaspeed anything is, imo, the perfected 'rice rocket' and certainly more appealing to the generally younger buyer. a toyota v6 should be cheaper to insure than that speed6 simply because of that and despite those hp numbers being similar.
exactly, captain. i think the reason a v6 honda would be more expensive to insure than the 4cylinder is more about the cost of the car, than the performance.
not only that, but insurance companies live for finding excuses to charge more for insurance. ohh.... you got the v6 version, bam! we're charging you a lot more! any excuse will do for criminally setup auto insurance business.
if the car oozes the words sport, or speed, insurance company's turn on there profit driven charges.
ok, honda vs. honda, but make it the speed6 vs. the accord6 where the vehicle msrps are about the same, the speed6 should cost more to insure, the speed buyer is probably younger and likes all that 'look at me - i can go fast' bling.
ok, honda vs. honda, but make it the speed6 vs. the accord6 where the vehicle msrps are about the same, the speed6 should cost more to insure, this is where i think we get into assuming the mentality of the driver. assuming the speed driver would be a greater risk would be wrong, imo. that doesn't mean insurance companies don't do it, i would, however disagree with that. if both cars are "midsize sedans" and the msrp is the same, the insurance cost should be the same also.
assuming the speed driver would be a greater risk would be wrong, imo. that doesn't mean insurance companies don't do it, i don't think they do. most insurance companies determine their rates statisticly. if 3 percent of honda sold are involved in an accident, and 4 percent of mazda speed 6's sold are involved in accidents, the speed 6 will get a higher rate. that's why you pay more depending on where you live, age, sex, record, and type of car. its all bassed on statistics.
andres, your ignorance is glaring. in addition to all the driver demographics, vehicle demographics are taken into consideration. (at least they are in ct where i am an insurance agent.) things like frequency of involvement in claims (accidents or theft/vandalism), damagability (the cost of vehicle repairs for standardized damage tests), and value of vehicle are factored into the rate. in ct, and i think most or all of the country, performance car ratings (high perf, intermediate perf or sport car) were dropped several years ago in favor of a more accurate measure of risk based upon actual make/model loss experience. (this evolution was probably helped when caddy brought out the northstar. suddenly, grandma was driving a "high performance" car and after time the statistics showed that granny driving her caddy had a better record than many others cars.) the words "sport" or "speed" have nothing to do with it. a grand cherokee loredo sport does not cost more to insure than a grand cherokee limited. they're not in the class being discussed, they were just the first two examples that came to mind of the "same" vehicle with different sub-names not being rated differently due to a name. another example was the 1984 chrysler laser and its dodge counter part. they were the exact same car, except for the name. after a year or so on the market, the chrysler became less expensive to insure than the dodge. the dodge didn't become more expensive, the chrysler became less expensive. why? try loss experience and what type of driver was attracted to each car. another myth is that manual shift cars cost more to insure than cars with a/t. if anything, the manual shift might cost less to insure due to the car (generally) having a lower msrp than the car with a/t. the statistics are based on hundreds of thousands or millions of cars over a period of time.
performance car ratings (high perf, intermediate perf or sport car) were dropped several years ago in favor of a more accurate measure of risk based upon actual make/model loss experience. sounds a lot more logical and accurate to me.
re our recent thread about the influence of warranty coverage on your mid-sized car purchase decision... chrysler has just blown past every other automaker with its new lifetime powertrain warranty on all new chrysler vehicles, including the chrysler and dodge mid-sized sedans: http://www.edmunds.com/insideline/do/news/articleid=121856 i think this is a great move for chrysler to catch the attention of buyers, similar to what hyundai did eight years ago with its 10 year/100k warranty. but chrysler needs to follow up just as hyundai did, by greatly improving their products--specifically the chrysler and dodge--as soon as possible.
i leased a speed6 gt the end of feb. 2006 and really loved and enjoyed the car very much. it was a real kick and pleasure to drive and i felt separated me from 99% of everything else on the road. it had speed, good looks, and all sorts of std. equipment most other cars did not have - keyless entry and starting, auto up/down all 4 windows, hid headlights, easy close trumk, adjustable height of headlights etc. but then the problems began which made me feel unconfident in the ability of the car to get me where i was going or getting home. first, the fuel pump went in feb of this year in the middle of the snow storm here in the east. my wife & i were on 95 going to md from nj and the pump crapped out leaving us stranded and in real jepordy. it took a week and a half to get it fixed, and 4 months more to have mazda pay me back for the expenses incurred. i decided to get rid of it and get something that has a better track record of durability, so i turned to the subaru gt sedan. i am now driving the subaru for around a week and like it too (not as much as the speed6 yet). btw, i bought out of the mazda lease 6 months early when i traded for the subaru and wound up around $1,000 on the upside for the tradein. as i said, i like the subaru too, but it doesn't make me feel as good driving it as the speed6 did. maybe because the speed6 was a 6 speed stick and the only 08 subaru turbo i could get my hands on is an automatic. also, the speed6 is a much more user friendly car, more storage and all gauges and information is viewable at one time, the subaru has a computer info center on one led - only one screen at a time. if anyone has any questions about my experiences, feel free to ask me. artour
i saw a commercial on tv about this tonight. the "fine print" at the bottom says not all models are covered under this new "warranty." the warranty is not transferable......most people don't drive their vehicles for more than a few years. at least not the people i know.....maybe 3-4 years max and then they get new cars. the warranty doesn't help subsequent owners and its pretty likely the 3 year/36,000 mile warranty already expired. also, i don't think the warranty will greatly persuade people to go out and buy a chrysler.
i agree, it is great for the buyer who intends to keep the car for 10 years. but since i lease jeeps i could care less, i want to see lower payments than their current lease offers which are not as good as on my 04 jeep. this is using all rebates, lease loyalty and affiliate discounts. old mike
you make a number of good points - the way these 'extended warranties are structured can make them almost worthless to the average car buyer. don't believe the gm/hyundai warranties are transferrable and you better believe that those mfgrs. know how fast mileage is accumulated and how long the average buyer keeps a car. it is, by any definition, a marketing 'gimmick', imo. chrysler can 'warranty' its cars forever but it doesn't change their products, and chrysler's long term (cerebus) future - which is shaky. our compadre, akirby, can rage on all he wants about ford's first 'profitable' quarter in a long long time, but it is really insignificant to the billions and billions they have lost recently - and the billions and billions more they had to borrow just so they could close some more plants and put even more americans out of work. gm, oth, while they have shown the same sort of ability to lose as much money as possible, seems content to simply become the world's first chinese 'american' manufacturer. given 'detroit's' generally dire financial straits, i think buyers of those particular brands are really more likely to chance a worthless warranty because the company no longer exists, then they are to actually need to use that warranty in the first place.
there are very few models not covered--high performance cars, the big mercedes-sourced van, and (interestingly) diesels, plus some fleet vehicles. but almost every vehicle is covered. also, most long powertrain warranties don't go past the original owner. it's an inducement for someone to buy a chrysler, much like the hyundai/kia/mitsubishi warranty (which also doesn't transfer to other owners).
there are very few models not covered--high performance cars, the big mercedes-sourced van, and (interestingly) diesels, plus some fleet vehicles. i think the diesel drivetrains already come with some type of extended warranty, and since they are used for some very high mile applications (2-300k/yr) that might be too much to ask. i think its cool that they would be willing to support a single owner for a 150-200k lifetime. if the warranty covers the transmission and basic engine mechanicals (like the oil pump, head gasket, etc, but not the water pump), i think that would make me feel more comfortable with a vehicle. i also think since most people lease the car anyway, the exposure for chrysler is minimal, and they might actually be making a reliable product :p
if you'd pay attention you'd see that ford isn't just cost cutting their way to profit, they're making fundamental changes to how they do business including better products but it won't happen overnight. one profitable quarter is simply a good sign that they're on the right path. we'll know in 4 years when the clean sheet new products arrive. i bet if honda or toyota came out with a similar warranty it would be praised as evidence of superior quality. neither position is accurate as warranty length has nothing to do with quality - it's just an insurance policy with a defined cost that has to be built into the product. higher quality means less warranty cost but you can put a 10 yr warranty on anything if you have enough profit to pay for the repairs.
exactly. it's not much of a risk for chrysler because many people lease cars for a short time, and the average time of ownership of a car is just a few years (one article about this warranty quoted someone at chrysler as saying 3 years). but it does really stand out as something unique in the industry, and therefore is a smart step for chrysler, which is desparate to attract buyers any way they can. then they have to hope that the curious people who come in to drive a chrysler or dodge like the car enough to buy or lease it. one little problem i see with this warranty program: when hyundai did it eight years ago, they had a big problem with lack of confidence in the quality of their vehicles. a long warranty can help alleviate that concern. i don't think chrysler's big problem is vehicle reliability, at least not powertrain reliability. i think it's that they need more competitive car designs, especially mid-sized cars (and small cars too). a long warranty won't help solve that problem, but maybe it will help them stay in the game better until they can improve their cars.
well there are a few oddballs like me that buy a car new and keep it forever. had our first two new cars for 12 years each and our 3rd for 10 and counting. plan to keep the latest ones just as long. most people in both our families are the same way and i expect our kids will be so also, so for us it would be a factor. otoh, from the mfr's perspective, if all you attract are the buyers who come in once every 12 years (like me) you will only sell them 1/4 as many cars as you would to the same number of people who trade every 3 years. :surprise: i would have liked to have had a warranty like this on my windstar to cover all the gaskets in their sieve (3.8l engine). and actually, now that i think of it, it was seals and gaskets that led to the demise of it's predecessor...a plymouth minivan. i think this would have caused me to give additional consideration to chyrsler products, but pretty sure even after that i would not have chosen the chrysler.
i tend to keep new cars in the family for a long time also, but i don't put many miles on in a year. that is why the long warranties from hyundai et. al. appeal to me. however, the warranty is no good to me if i don't like the car. the warranty is a tie-breaker for me, if more than one car crosses the bar in every other respect. the chrysler and dodge don't do that for me. but suppose it came down to, say, an kia and a mercury, for about the same price. then the kia's longer warranty would be a plus.
if someone was already considering a chrysler product, this could cinch the deal. this warranty should help chrysler retain/maintain the current number of customers, but as far as attracting more/new customers, i doubt it will be so effective.
ford's first profitable' quarter in a long long time even ford themselves said it would be the only profitable quarter this year, and they don't expect sustained profitablilty till 2009
but it sure helps with the cash flow situation.
it also shocked a lot of so called financial "experts". :shades: this article appeared in the detroit news the morning of the 26th. they should have waited to publish their guesses.
not a huge mt fan, but.... let the kia haters begin the tirades... buick buick 2 chevrolet chevrolet 3 chrysler chrysler 2 dodge dodge 2.5 ford ford 3 honda honda 3.5 hyundai hyundai 3 kia kia 3.5 mazda 6 2.5 mercury mercury 3 mitsubishi mitsubishi 2.5 nissan nissan 3 pontiac pontiac 2.5 saturn saturn 3 suburu subaru 3 toyota toyota 3.5 volkswagen volkswagen 3.5
bet if honda or toyota came out with a similar warranty it would be praised as evidence of superior quality hogwash, imo - if you find toyota or honda offering these ridiculous warranties then it is evidence of declining market share or (even worse) declining reputation. camcords have the warranties that they have precisely and only because that is all that is needed to sell them - some of the cars in this group don't get a second look without it - and it would be foolish (and bad business) for toyota/honda (and nissan) to do such a thing when all three cars sell just fine and magically blow away the lesser competition in long term reliability studies anyway. in short, these extended warranties are more likely evidence of suspect quality (and reputation) not superior. the camcords, specifically, have set the standard in this class for about 25 years now, and there is no evidence at this point that any of this has changed other than the competition seems, over a much shorter term, to be getting a bit better. it's about time - it is not like those other manufacturers didn't have plenty of time to see how it's done... these warranties are offered for several marketing type reasons, but 'superior quality' is not one of them. 'superior quality' is something that is expected from models from particular mfgrs., and not something that any warranty of any length is ever going to imply/evidence/guarantee (or whatever), for 10 years or 10 minutes! from your statement you are trying to tell me that the chrysler, in this case, must be the best built car available, if we are to assume that this model is covered by this chrysler warranty? gimme a break!
we'll know in 4 years when the clean sheet new products arrive. oh yeah, more promises coming from dearborn. both the ford and five hundred were touted to be class competitive and defining 'clean sheet' new products, neither of which are or were. how about some results - the promises are getting very, very, very, old.
we'll know in 4 years when the clean sheet new products arrive. i believe what the captain meant to say was: oh yeah, more promises coming from dearborn. both the ford and five hundred were touted to be class competitive and defining 'clean sheet' new products insert personal opinion here i think there is a slight mix up between class competitive and class leading. of course, i don't think an over powered weak kneed lounge chair is class leading either, and that seemed to drive his purchase decision.
from your statement you are trying to tell me that the chrysler, in this case, must be the best built car available, if we are to assume that this model is covered by this chrysler warranty? gimme a break! please re-read what i posted. i guess you stopped after the first sentence. i bet if honda or toyota came out with a similar warranty it would be praised as evidence of superior quality. neither position is accurate as warranty length has nothing to do with quality - it's just an insurance policy with a defined cost that has to be built into the product. higher quality means less warranty cost but you can put a 10 yr warranty on anything if you have enough profit to pay for the repairs. my point was the camcord lovers have such a double standard on things like this that it's almost laughable.
oh yeah, more promises coming from dearborn. both the ford and five hundred were touted to be class competitive and defining 'clean sheet' new products, neither of which are or were. how about some results - the promises are getting very, very, very, old. the ford and the five hundred are competitive - not class leading but certainly competitive. the new ford just might be class leading. there are 2 things different at ford - fields and mullaly - and they are making fundamental changes to how ford designs and builds cars (finally) that previous ceos either didn't know how or didn't have the guts to do. the 09 models due out next year will be the first real sign of the product design turnaround under fields. it will take 2 or 3 more years to fully realize the global platform strategy that mullaly is mandating now.
"five hundred are competitive" i agree 100%. i had a 500 for a week, it had a lot of room. amenities were ok. acceleration was adequate, handline was annoying and it sucked gas like no tomorrow. would i buy one over an honda? i don't know, this car defintely fits the value proposition, pay less, get less.
" let the kia haters begin the tirades... " i for one actually like the new kia. from what i have seen and read, it is a big step up for that manufacturer.
i fail to see how a package of extended warranties e.g: hyundai's 10 yr/100k mile powertrain coupled with a 5 yr/60k mile bumper to bumper + additional perks is "ridiculous". i have found through experience that hyundai doesn't "need" this type of warranty any longer to sell cars. in fact i keep looking for them to drop/diminish it. however, please don't make the mistake of believing that honda (for sure in my experience), and toyota don't need the reassurance of a long warranty. i do have experiences (not good ones) with a 2006 honda and keep looking over my shoulder at the end of the 3 yrs/36k mile warranty rapidly closing in on us. i for one like and miss the luxury of a long warranty...used or not.
no, i said what i meant to and did start that particular post with an imo - the 500 a regurgitated volvo, the ford, of course a regurgitated 6 and both hampered by old drivetrains that simply don't measure up by about any yardstick you choose to use - power and fe come to mind. even the new edge, portrayed recently in a magazine as something that could have 'saved ford' has tested very poorly (cr) relative to its competition despite getting the new 'clean sheet' 3.5 which apparently isn't really 'clean sheet' after all. yes, class leading and competitive are certainly different terms, but, it would be refreshing to see any detriot mfgr. make something other than a truck that would cause the real big 3 in this class to take notice. the toyota, btw, which i guess is what you diss, is anything but 'weak kneed' in the 'touring' trim which i own, has further won outright every comparo it has ever been a part of (tmk), has the lowest coo in its class, the best power (except for the v8s, of course), the best fe, and is the highest rated sedan cr has ever tested (tied with an acura). if you are willing to tradeoff some of smooth and quiet ride for anything not so 'soft' that's one thing but that, my friend, is exactly what 'class leading' is all about!
my point was the camcord lovers have such a double standard on things like this that it's almost laughable. yes, some of them would. cough andres3 cough, cough :p
i have found through experience that hyundai doesn't "need" this type of warranty any longer to sell cars. glad you've had apparently good luck with your hyundai, but it would be the korean mfgrs. that 'need' that warranty the most, imo, not so much for what they are producing now but in payment for past sins. no car should have any sort of real problems in its first 100k, the warranties 'ridiculous' (maybe a bad choice of words) in that a well designed and built car shouldn't ever darken the dealer's doorstep until well after that mileage has come and gone. in fact, i would bet that the 7 years (for those that don't drive that much, is a tougher number (from hyundai's perspective) than the 100k. tell me that your hyundai has been trouble free for several years and maybe 250k miles, that's indicative of something really good as it is for any car these days.
>hogwash, imo - if you find toyota or honda offering these ridiculous warranties then it is evidence of declining market share or (even worse) declining reputation. how about the transmission "extension warranty" to 100k miles for honda. how about the recalls to put in an oiling tube they "forgot" in engineering? how about the current transmission/powertrain problems with flare and hesitations in toyota (es/toyota), which is giving toyota a real problem in image. if you are open-minded i can link to discussions here on edmunds where people are upset about not having the "powertrain warranty" applied even during those short full warranty periods. how about the recent sludge problem with toyota? they extended the warranty to cover some--at least to make it look good in the media... regression to the mean is occurring.
or it could be some people will love a lovable car. just a thought, loren p.s. on the serious side, all cars need as long a warranty as possible, as anything mechanical can need to be repaired. in the case of some cars, more often than not. as for hyundai, they got some good cars. tested the hyundai and it seemed good. trouble for hyundai with this group is that there are other great choices. good doesn't trump great.
granted, the camcords have a good track record in the usa, but marketing and consumer perception plays an enormous part in the determination of quality. kia, which is perceived as a cheap, unreliable brand in the usa, is well-accepted in europe.
you buy your kid a high mileage camcord or honda/toyota and that is thought to be a wise decision, do the same thing with a kia (and many other varieties) and folks think you are crazy - perception, for sure - but also one with about 20 years of history behind it.
guy1974 wrote this in satun forum: to soften the blow saturn have upto $2250 of rebates/incentives on the 07 saturn to help shift the backlog. where do i get $2,250 of rebates/incentives! i just talked to the dealership and they acted like i was nuts. they said the only thing they'd give me is $500 for some conquest incentive because i'm trading in another car. $500 is crap. tell me how to get the other $1750 and i'll buy the saturn today, otherwise i'll have to wait and upgrade to another honda or maybe buy the '08 chevrolet. i just don't understand why saturn doesn't deal. no wonder they've only sold 9 of 128 saturn's over the past 3 weeks. that's right, they had 128 saturn's on thier lot on the 9th of this month. i don't know how they stay in business without turning inventory. the longer something sits, the worse off they are, no?
wonder why buying a high mileage foreign car is considered a wise decision? seems to me like a costly repair bill would be lurking in the future. i would think the domestics would cost less to repair and be less expensive to insure. on the other hand, buying a used kia or hyundai seems like not so wise a move. yeah, i would buy a used japan make first. the kia / hyundai needs to be backed by the original owner warranty, thus bought new and held for ten years to pay out. my dad knew a traveling salesman that bought high mileage honda, drove them another 50k to 100k then dumped it and bought another one. well it could work out. to buy a kid one, with the chance of it breaking, with a higher insurance rate makes little sense to me. loren
i agree. anything over 150k miles is a crap shoot at best. if it was properly and professionally maintained it might go another 100k. but then again, it might not. unless it was being had real cheap, doesn't really make a lot of sense.
your information is all nice and dandy, but i get annoyed, suspicious, and rightfully angry when insurance agents (not all agents/companies, but definitely some) ask me the following question when i'm asking to get a quote: is your 2.0l turbo audi audi a sport or premium version? they are the exact same car, only the sport has a "sport" suspension, and high performance summer tires vs. the premium's all-season performance tires. cost wise, they were virtually identical in msrp in 2006; so i ask you..... why the question? i understand the need to differentiate between the 3.2 audi v6 and the 2.0t 4 cylinder in the audi, but not the sport vs. premium.
:lemon: i disagree. i think chrysler's biggest problem is having produced nothing but :lemon: 's in their long history. my experience with them and from people i know is that they have produced about as many non-lemons in their entire corporate history as yugo produced cars in the us period. either way, the biggest problem is that everyone knows chrysler have terrible reliability, including the powertrains, and that leads to terrible resale value since they don't last much past 50k miles. since the warranty doesn't transfer, the resale value (one key problem) is not helped one bit! shame on chrysler! plus, they won't exist in 10 years anyway, so the warranty won't be worth the paper it's written on.
my point was the camcord lovers have such a double standard on things like this that it's almost laughable. funny, i don't think anyone became a camcord lover at first sight. i think they all fell in love after one or more ownership experiences over years. it was a slow love affair. i don't think anyone hated the big 3 in the us at first sight, but after an ownership experience, they were ready to kill them in hatred. :mad:
i don't think anyone hated the big 3 in the us at first sight, but after an ownership experience, they were ready to kill them in hatred. only because they stopped making my beloved contour
if it's a crapshoot then betting on honda must be like taking 1-11 and betting on chrysler must be like taking 12 and only 12...... i would buy any 150k honda that still drives like it should (and is supposed to) in a second! risk of expensive repair..... nil.... risk of cheap repairs..... some... but not much...
i'm not too impressed by the warranty either. it is a gimmick unless you plan to keep the car for along time. chrysler is banking on what hyundai did with their warranty in counting on buyers to buy their cars and keep them a few years, and then sell them to void the longterm warranty. thats what most people do with the auto industry average still about 5-years before trade in.
reviewing my friends that have owned chrysler products, all have had reasonable luck, even though most never adhered to a routine maintenance program, and that includes oil changes. i recently sold our 1994 grand caravan with the 3.3l v6 and 4-speed automatic that we purchased new in late 1994. after 170k miles, the engine was only using about a quarter of a quart of oil between changes (3k or 3 months), and it had the original 4-speed automatic, and it still shifted fine. i used mobil 1 synthetic, and change atf every 24k. during trips it would deliver 26mpg with a full load of family and luggage. many purported economy cars today don't do too much better. i really believe that much of the poor reliability with any car relates to extremely poor preventive/routine maintenance by the owner. as to chrysler's new lifetime power train warranty - i believe it may be a tactic of the new private equity firm owner (cerebus) to improve sales in the short term (3 to 5 years) to bolster the stock price, and then they will dump chrysler at a decent profit. after all, that's what private equity firms generally do!
they won't exist in 10 years anyway, so the warranty won't be worth the paper it's written on. as much as i might agree with you on the quality comments, and the forbodding 'purchase' by cerebus might support this, remember that it was chrysler that required all those loans on the last 'bail-out' several years back and it was the k car, the minivans, and the suvs/trucks combined with some lower gas prices that allowed chrysler to pay everything back with interest - early. it may be a little early to declare c, ford, or gm dead. it would be generally devastating to this country if this would happen to any of the three, in any case. i've always thought that chrysler had a penchant for one thing - styling - but also that their products were crappola otherwise. a chrysler (or 300) in my driveway, not a chance, warranties notwithstanding - more like i wouldn't want to have to deal with what i would anticipate being the aggravation of ever owning one - who is actually paying for those repairs being secondary!
i'm wondering how much chrysler is going to charge people for their mandatory drivetrain checkups every 5 years. it would probably add up to the cost of an extended warranty, at least.
i would buy any 150k honda that still drives like it should (and is supposed to) in a second! risk of expensive repair..... nil.... risk of cheap repairs..... some... but not much... i guess "expensive" repair is relative. i have a '96 honda chrysler (auto, i4) that currently has 174k. it drives nicely, if a little floaty (i'll need shocks soon). my last repair was $564 for a new radiator - 172,000 miles. before that, a new brake master-cylinder, which was about $310 - 160,000 miles. before that, the main cooling fan motor went at somewhere around 140k-150k miles (the actual mileage is escaping me at the moment). that was $350 or so. for a car worth $4,000 or less, i've spent $1,100+ not including brakes/tires/gas/oil changes/body repairs since i've had the car. sure, some cars will cost you that before you hit 100,000 miles, but life isn't perfect on the north side of 150k either. to its credit, i have entirely original exhaust system, alternator, fuel pump, and transmission, things that often are shot by this point in a car's life. (by the way, i got the car in aug. 2002, when it had 121,000 miles on it = 5 years and 53,000 miles under my ownership).
those are all cheap repairs in my opinion. an expensive repair is one that costs more than $500. so your new radiator is borderline, and that happened at 172k miles. in my domestic it seemed almost every repair ended up leading to at least 2 issues to be repaired; which ended up always costing $400 or more (with many being $1,000 or more) way back in the late nineties. with inflation i'd say the figure should be $500 now.
thats the whole reason i wouldn't buy a car with over 150k miles one it. you can go ahead and take your chances andres, but there is no part on any car that will last forever. those asian cars that run problem free for over 100k miles can quickly begin to nickle and dime you to death. sure, the engine will continue to run fine, but with so many miles on original parts, the odds of having to fix something are far to great for me.now if the car is cheap enough, thats a different story. i'll give you an example. my 98 200sx with 147k miles and 9 years old has everything on it original. with the sole exception of the front brakes and the battery. that leaves the rear brakes, altenator, starter, power motors for the windows, and moon roof, distributor, water pump, radiator, clutch, exhaust...........i could continue, but you get the point.........with a lot of age and miles on them. i'm not expecting it to, but with so much original equipment that thing could easily turn into a repair nightmare (or mechanics dream depending on your pov :p ). i think its the one way the reliability of asian cars can come back and bite you in the [non-permissible content removed]. it could very easily turn into fix something every 3 months. nothing on its own major or expensive, but enough of them and it starts to add up.
i guess "expensive" repair is relative. i have a '96 honda chrysler (auto, i4) that currently has 174k. it drives nicely, if a little floaty (i'll need shocks soon). my last repair was $564 for a new radiator - 172,000 miles. before that, a new brake master-cylinder, which was about $310 - 160,000 miles. before that, the main cooling fan motor went at somewhere around 140k-150k miles (the actual mileage is escaping me at the moment). that was $350 or so. relative! you can say that again. there are some outrageous charges here. dealerships charge way too much, imo. i guess the charge for the radiator is not too bad, but $310 for a mc, and $350 for a fan motor. that's highway robbery.
"virtually" identical price may be the key. price range is considered. in distunguishing from one price range to another, a line is drawn (i.e. 1 to 1,000 vs 1001 to 2000). there's not much difference between 995 and 1004, but if the line is drawn at 1,000 there will be a difference. i just checked the iso rating symbols and saw that a 2006 audi audi "sport" or "premium" have the same rating symbol--18. the question about trim is probably a standard question that must be answered in a computerized rating/quoting system and has nothing to due with the name a manufacturer slaps on a car for marketing purposes. do you really think that a dodge caravan "sport" is "sporty?" insurance companies have been working toward providing the most accurate quotes possible so there won't be any unpleasant surprizes at the time of purchase. to improve accuracy they need more detailed information than they needed a few years ago. why does that make you "annoyed, suspicious, and rightfully angry?" do you get angry about other questions they ask, some of which may lead to discounts?
you know what you have got into it, and its paid for, so you might as well keep it if its not boaring you.
according to what i have read, there is no charge for the inspection. i still would be leary of the fine print and what maintenance they expect you to perform and where. other than the dodge, chrysler cars don't do anything for me but to each his own.
agreed. thats why i kept it when i bought my nissan instead of tradding it in. but, i'd never buy one like it. at least that high of mileage and that age because of the reasons i mentioned. not unless i was getting it for a steal.
and, if you can believe it, this dealership is the cheap one in town! labor is $70/hr sheesh. at least they stand behind their work (its been proven over and over with my family). it's time for the timing belt soon, and i'll be having it done at a local mechanic my grandfather uses; his quote from the dealer for a change of all belts (timing belt included) and water pump was about $250 less at the mechanic than the dealership.
you know what you have got into it, and its paid for, so you might as well keep it if its not boaring you. that's the other side of the issue. it is a known entity. it has been treated well for its whole life, and it is worth more to us keeping it in the "fleet" of family vehicles than the cash from the sale of it would be. it is my family's "extra" car. we are so used to having it, that if we got rid of it, we'd have to get another one, and that would cost more than the cost of keeping this one running (which is about $300 a year + oil changes + gas + cheap insurance). also, my vehicle is my 2006 honda (i drive both regularly though), but since we have the 1996 in the fleet, i'm insured as the primary on the '96, and my mom is "primary" on the 2006. saves us money in a roundabout way.
try $85 an hour in california! i do know of one mechanic which will do some basic work for $45 an hour. but some things have to be done at the dealership or somewhere they are all the equipment for the task at hand. dollar wise, i think a doctor charges about the same as these dealerships do per hour loren
well, i can't report 250k miles (which i think is excessive to expect even in this day of an easy 100k car) on our 2000 hyundai, an early enough model that apparently doesn't qualify as one of the "greatly improved" products hyundai builds these days (built in the "bad old days" for hyundai). but, its quality is good enough to have traveled 161.5k miles with only an alternator/battery replacement. sure...tires, brake parts etc have been replaced. my son drives this car 100 miles per day and since he is in chicago for a week i have been driving it. it has been some time since i have had the opportunity to do so and i am amazed at how well it runs..drives. still like new and i didn't have any fear taking it on a 300 mile trip last week-end. so, one man's tale with a 7 year/161k mile old hyundai.
for me to plug the new dealer ratings & reviews feature again. several of you are making comments about service experiences that would be helpful to share with the world.
so why do insurance companies use retarded things like "ranges" when they should be using "ratios" to be more exact and accurate. a 19,001 dollar car should not cost that much more to insure than a 18,999 dollar one (if they are otherwise virtually identical). to be honest, fair and ethical, shouldn't insurance companies stop using ranges like 12-15,000 miles, and start using mathematical ratios to figure out that the difference between 12,000 and 15,000 miles driven per year is significant, but the difference between 11,950 and 12,050 miles/year is less than 1%?
i've never had my insurance rate change because of the number of miles driven. what insurance companies do you deal with, or are you just very young (under 25)?
$70 to $100 seems to be the typical hourly service rate at dealerships, unless you own an exotic. my dealer charges $90 an hour - and, i'm in illinois.
i remember reading a few months back that the mazda was one of the least costly to insure compared to other cars in this class. part of the reason, i would think, would have to do with the a relatively low cost to repair to the bumpers and the rest of the car compared to other cars in this class according to the study done by the insurance companies. and perhaps another part may be that better handling cars will have a better chance at avoiding an accident. of course using this logic, a sports car would have very low insurance rates, which they don't, so maybe this theory shouldn't be emphasized too much, but i'm not sure what else would explain the differences... maybe the mazda looks so nice, other cars don't want to hit it? :shades:
price ranges are the starting point for physical damage insurance; the line has to be drawn somewhere, just like a honda or state boundary line, or voting district boundary lines. live on one side of the line and you're in a different category than w neighbor who lives on the other side of the line. after the price range starting point other factors are considered such as frequency of claims and damagability. it's not an everyday happen stance, but it's not unusual for a more expensive car, whether a couple bucks more expensive or even a few thousand bucks more, to have a lower rating symbol than a lower prices car. regarding you annual mileage concern: i'm not familiar with that as none of the companies i represent use that criterion. but, again, for those companies that do, a line has to be drawn somewhere. the system is not individualized but is based on large numbers. if it were individualized and you had a somewhat serious accident, you might never be able to afford car insurance again and without insurance you might not be able to register a car or drive.
and perhaps another part may be that better handling cars will have a better chance at avoiding an accident. the handling differences are not that great. so that statement is about as likely as this one. maybe the mazda looks so nice, other cars don't want to hit it? it's all about the cost to repair. it costs less to buy, costs less to repair, and therefore costs less to insure. makes sense huh?
elroy, you're on the right track, but the car that is less expensive to buy is not necessarily the less espensive to repair after an accident.
on average, i'd say it's true. if you crash a buick, and a mercedes into a wall at 20mph, the mercedes will likely cost more to repair, even if it has a little less damage. "crumple zones" are meant to protect passengers, but it doesn't bode well for the crumpled car, when the repair costs are added up.
it's all about the cost to repair. it costs less to buy, costs less to repair, and therefore costs less to insure. makes sense huh? if only things were that simple as that kind of logic...actually, as bhmr59 mentioned, there is not a big correlation between the cost of a car vs the cost to repair a car. in the iihs study that tested most of the midsize cars, the hyundai in a full frontal fender bender cost 4 times more to repair than the mazda! and the nissan cost nearly 3 times more in a rear fender bender in comparison to the mazda (probably because the nissan has those huge faux crystals on the back that they call taillights). and the honda cost 3.5 times more to repair a front frender bender than the mazda. of course deductables make these costs not as significant to the owner, but this would help to understand why the mazda was found to be one of the least expensive to insure in the midsize class. the handling differences are not that great. tell that to the girl in the passenger seat of a bmw that made a sudden left hand turn into my lane a couple weeks ago... going by the test results by many car mags, if i were driving an honda or nissan, i would have not been able to stop in time and that girl would have a few reasons to be very unhappy. oh, and the latest poll clearly found that when given a choice, people prefer to not hit good looking cars, especially the mazda :p
...with an a/t that has a above average fuel economy and has descent power. i understand the new nissan fits these requirements. consumer reports says the 2.5 s nissan goes 0-60 in 8.0 seconds and it does better at the pump than the 4 cyl toyota or honda. so the 07 nissan 2.5 s has better fuel economy and has more power! also the nissan se-r has a 2.5l engine and, under the governments new ratings, does better at the pump than the nissan! consumer reports had nothing on 0-60 time on the se-r. seems the spec v is more popular and gets more press. comments or advice appreciated.
well, as an honda owner that hasn't driven the 2007 nissan (so keep that in mind and take what i say with a grain of salt) let me say that i am more than happy with the economy my honda gives me. i've gotten above 35 mpg on every single highway-only trip i've taken (and i drive between 70-80 mph typically). in mixed chevrolet driving, 28-30 mpg is typical for me. it is also plenty quick, although i believe testing shows the nissan to be faster. go drive them and form your own opinions. honda can be had well below invoice at this point, and in-turn, may give you more bang for your buck. the best advice i can give is to drive as many vehicles as you can before making a decision.
based on the things you've said so far, you want something both fun and frugal with an automatic. it also sounds like you don't mind a slightly smaller car so long as it has 4 doors (which is why you'd consider the nissan). some questions i would ask before making a recommendation would include... 1 - would you like to be able to haul somewhat larger items without having to borrow a pickup or suv? in other words, would a hatchback or wagon be desireable as long as it looked ok? 2 - how much do you like to drive? do you like twisty roads or do you just want enough power to get past the slowpokes? or is a car just a way to get from a to b? 3 - how long do you think you'll keep the car? will the length of standard warranty be a factor for you? 4 - if you could save money on the car purchase, would gas mileage be as important (think of the savings on buying the car as a gas allowance...)? or if you don't want to think that much, the nissan would be a good choice as long as you can get used to the funky transmission. the honda is always a good, although a bit too common, choice. and of course the mazda (yes i'm biased...that's what i have) will be fun to drive in the twisties and will have the option of the hatchback which looks like a sedan but can store/ haul big things. the 4 banger automatic is a bit slow though...but you can get it in some markets for 6k+ off of msrp. the hyundai would be another choice that could be described as "practical" and "value oriented." in the end though, grad is right...drive many of the cars, and don't make a decision too quickly. and never let a saleperson know that you really really like their car!!! always say it's nice, but so was the other car (insert name here). and don't drive a car that you can't afford or don't really want (like a 2 door coupe)... you may make a decision you would regret later. you'll find many opinions here, so if that's what you want, you've come to the right place!
elroy, you're on the right track, but the car that is less expensive to buy is not necessarily the less espensive to repair after an accident. my mazda s was roughly $20 less to insure per year than our '96 honda was. go figure! the 6 did cost about $4000 more to buy too. that was with allstate. we've since switched to state farm and they are only charging me $40 more per year to insure a 2006 ford gt over the mazda it replaced. the ford cost $9000 more than the 6 to buy(after rebates and all on the 6 which i factored into the difference from the honda above too). the 6 was leased though so i'm not sure that that had anything to do with it. i do know that we didn't change any coverage levels when we replaced it with the ford though.
none of these cars have "above average" fuel economy, and i wouldn't make the final decision over 1 mpg anyway. have you considered the toyota hybrid? there are people who rave about it, but i'll take performance over gas mileage. the honda is as good as it gets. the 2008 is around the corner, but don't expect any deals. you could probably make out like a bandit with a 2007 though. the nissan is not as roomy as the honda. how long do you want to keep the car? a car that may seem fine for a year, you may come to hate over the long haul. need to decide how much room you will need and what you in general want to use the car for. good luck.
insurance is funny. i replaced a jeep with a bmw and my insurance went down significantly. i know the insurance knows why, but i sure don't, nor did i ask.
i know the insurance knows why, but i sure don't, nor did i ask. that's kind of what i was getting at. i thought i was going to get nailed on the insurance when i bought the ford but was pleasantly surprised and did not question that one either.
also the nissan se-r has a 2.5l engine and, under the governments new ratings, does better at the pump than the nissan! consumer reports had nothing on 0-60 time on the se-r. seems the spec v is more popular and gets more press. the se-r is a regular nissan with a body kit and the engine from the nissan. the specv is a sport sedan with a 6 speed manual that competes with the honda si. it does better at the pump because it is smaller and marginally lighter.
going by the test results by many car mags, if i were driving an honda or nissan, i would have not been able to stop in time probably a very difficult thing to know for sure simply because i doubt very seriously that you know how much distance exactly it took you to stop or even whether that distance was the best your particular car could do. maybe i need some references here, but 60-0 tests i've read show the mazda/ford at a smidge over 130 feet (the longest stopping distances in this group), where the other cars you mention test at several feet less. in any case, i would suggest that any difference, better or worse, within let's say 10 feet or so is insignificant given the influences of driver reaction time, road and tire type and conditions etc. kinda like a high speed accelerating swerve i pulled off awhile back - that has me sold on the benefits of the 'excessive' power i have and has further convinced me that i may not be here today if my car had happened to be esc equipped - i have no way to know that i couldn't have done the same thing sans the extra hp and with the stability control interference.
"i know the insurance knows why, but i sure don't, nor did i ask." when i got the 1991 mazda 626, the insurance company ran the vin number and it came back as a two-door... and they wanted to charge a considerably higher rate just because it was showing up in their system as a coupe. there were very minor differences between the 4-door and the 2-door... same engine choices, transmissions, etc. they even used the same frame. one was not considerably larger, costlier, faster, or safer than the other. the single biggest difference between the two was the body style. mazda just decided to call the 4-door the 626 and the 2-door the mx-6. we had to actually drive the car to the local insurance office so that they could see it in person to verify that it was, in fact, a sedan and not a coupe.
"...would you like to be able to haul somewhat larger items without having to borrow a pickup or suv? in other words, would a hatchback or wagon be desireable as long as it looked ok?" so far in the 6 months i've owned my honda, i've had it filled to capacity several times, with anything from luggage and passengers, to bicycles and gear, to 10-foot peices of moulding (inside the car!), to old rotting lumber. i've never missed my previous suv. however, i think you are onto something about the larger (midsize) hatchbacks like the mazda. well, there aren't many others are there? i don't know why this isn't a more popular choice today. standing and looking at my sedan, there is a lot of wasted space in the design of the cargo area, specifically the differences between a sedan and a hatchback. what is the value of having a fixed rear "parcel shelf" which basically just holds the rear speakers? all i can think of is traditional sedan styling, and perhaps the security of being able to lock items into a closed trunk. while i've been happy so far with the volume and variety of my cargo capacity, incorporating the back glass into a larger, roof-hinged trunk door and eliminating that "parcel shelf" would allow more room and much easier access. i'm sold on the hatchback idea if it is executed well like the mazda.
your point is valid. when the mags proclaim x car stops in 115 feet and y car stops in 130 feet, this is a sample size of 1. actual stopping distances may vary due to terrain, car load, condition of brakes, road conditions, tire conditions, etc. i wouldn't bet my life on that 15 feet. it is useful to know in general the mags think x car stops shorter than y car, but that's where it ends. i wouldn't make a purchase decision on 15 feet.
simply upgrading the brake pads can make a huge difference. my last ride was a 4,400-lb suv with an appetite for pads and especially rotors. for the third replacement, out of warranty this time, i upgraded to a set of ceramic pads. after breaking them in a bit, i pointed the truck down a hill and stood suddenly on the brake pedal. the difference in braking power over the previous sets of stock pads was astounding to me. i don't have numbers, just seat-of-the-pants feel. when i showed my wife, she was amazed as well. my heavy truck had become one of the best-braking vehicles i've owned. when it's time for pads on my car, i'm going to look into an upgrade this time as well. sure, they cost a bit more and probably won't last quite as long, but if you are concerned about stopping power, this is the way to go. those ceramic pads also didn't produce nearly as much brake dust, and my mechanic said they are actually better on the rotors.
none of these cars have "above average" fuel economy, and i wouldn't make the final decision over 1 mpg anyway. i agree. for these cars in 4 cylinder versions, 1 mpg saves about $400 in 100,000 miles. that would mean $40-80 per year for most people, based on 10,000-20,000 miles per year. i think in cr tests almost every 4 cyl is within maybe 2 mpg of every other. so in most cases you are talking about a difference of $80-160. for me this is not enough difference to have any significant impact on my car choice. anyway, the differences in purchase price can be more than enough to make up for any mpg deficiency, in some cases. i believe i would have had to pay $3000-4000 more to buy an nissan or honda, rather than my mazda. if fuel costs me $800 more over the first 100,000 miles, i am still way ahead. as always, the calculus is different for frequent traders.
imo a lot of evaluations of braking performance is somewhat subjective anyway - meaning how 'hard' and 'linear' the brake pedal feels. my toyota has a decidedly mushier feel to it than my nissan, for example, but they both stop in about the same distance.
the mazda seems to have an advantage in breaking in the comparison test done by edmonds (i prefer to use comparison tests since the results are gathered from the same track on the same day which controls for weather differences). the honda took 133.4 feet to stop, the nissan (previous gen) took 137.3 feet and the mazda took 123.5 feet to stop from 60 to 0. if i remember correctly, most of the other comparo's had similar #'s with the mazda doing quite well compared to it's peers in braking distances.
the mazda seems to have an advantage in breaking... now that's an odd thing to call an advantage .
but why does their have to be a large dividing line? why can't simple mathematical ratios be used? multiply a factor (say .001 or whatever) by the amount of miles driven or any other criteria like the cost of the vehicle (.001 x 20,000 to come up with some "cost." you could do this for everything... that way 19,999 dollars won't differentiate more than it should from 20,001 dollars.
and this may all be true, although it was mt that listed both the ford and 6 at 131 feet. as kdshapiro noted 'a sample size of 1' that probably makes no allowances for driver to driver differences as well. i guarantee you that i could get a car to stop in shorter distances when i was 20 years old, then i can now simply because i would imagine my reaction times have aged as much as i have. nobody said that the 6 had 'bad' (or especially good) brakes, only that it is a stretch to assume that any car will avoid an accident when a different car wouldn't, when what we are really talking about about a lousy 10 feet or so of 'tested' braking distances - which btw translates to 1/8 of a second of reaction time at 60 mph.. while a good set of brakes is probably #1 on my list of real (and useful) active safety features, it is still only a part of what makes a dynamically 'safer' car, those other parts being power and handling. the trick, of course, being able to avoid an accident so that you don't end up with 538 airbags giving you chemical burns....
although it was mt that listed both the ford and 6 at 131 feet. . do you have a link for that captain? when i checked mt's site i found their test of a 2004 v6 mazda and it did 60-0 in 127 feet. my experience with my former 6 agrees with what zzzoom is saying. it stopped hard and fast and did save my butt a couple of times. once from an idiot and once from a deer on a highway. both were panic stops where the brake pedal went as far as i could push it and the abs didn't even have to kick on either time. the only time i experienced abs in that car was in the snow or when braking going down a hill and hitting a pothole or bump in the road if anyone knows how that goes.
you miss the point - your 4 feet, if indeed that is the case, is inconsequential - a camcordima driver can properly say that his brakes 'saved his butt' quite correctly, that is what brakes are for! i would further suggest that if you don't get your abs to kick in on what you regard as a 'panic' stop then either the abs isn't working right or it wasn't really a 'panic' stop at all! if the 6 has a higher level of wheellock tolerance in its abs settings, that would likely serve to reduce braking distances simply because of that and be (somewhat) unrelated to brake system effectiveness.
i would further suggest that if you don't get your abs to kick in on what you regard as a 'panic' stop then either the abs isn't working right or it wasn't really a 'panic' stop at all!i> oh they were panic stops all right. i credit the lack of abs activity to a combination of hot asphalt and summer tires. the abs worked just fine as i told you in the previous post (came on in snow quite often). i would wager that those same summer tires (technically they were all-season oems but that was a joke) increased my stopping distance in the winter. however, being that it was a stick i used engine braking a lot during those months. i know for sure that the abs did not come on when the car pulled out in front of me but it might have come on for the deer. it was dark and cold and my family was in the car so a lot of other things went through my mind and the abs could have slipped my mind. i don't recall it coming on then though. believe what you want but i'd wager that all mazda owners who participate here will back me up on the great brakes that car has.
not hauling anything but maybe 3 kids and wife. mostly doing honda driving. i just like the thought of having both power and saving on gas. so far, it seems to me, to have power you have to give up on high mpgs or visa nissan. i intend to buy within a year. thinking of buying slightly used and would keep it for 5 to 10 years. being that the case, even one mpg difference might mean a lot one day soon. definitely want something with 4 cyls. toyota hybrid is out of my price range. the nissan's size is just enough for my needs, but don't want smaller than that. no other small sedan with an a/t that size has 177 hp, uses regular fuel, and has a new government mpg rating as high as 24 honda/ 30 highway. my other car is 06 v6 toyota with 3rd row. mother-in-law just bought the 07 v6 toyota. took it for a spin. great ride! i was impressed by the 07 nissan because it showed better performance with improved fuel economy, even if it's only a 1 or 2 mpg difference, you have to admit, it's still impressive. according to consumer reports, the 4 cyl honda 0-60 was 9.0 seconds, the nissan's 8.1, v6 toyota 0-60 in 6.7 (same engine in the toyota). the new government mpg rating for the honda honda is 21, the nissan's 23 honda. not saying that one car is better than the other, but the new improved nissan has caught my attention.
first you say "slightly used" and then say 07 nissan. that would definitely be slightly used considering they are very new. seems like there would be a very limited number of used 07 nissan out there right now.
if you can wait for the new honda to come out, you may like the improvements they may make. and if you don't care for it, you can use the new honda as a way to leverage a better price from the nissan dealers. it's a win-win situation. unless you've got a serious itch, i'd wait just a little longer. one other thing...if you're going to have a driving style where your 0-60 times are important to you (in other words gunning it when you have a chance), you can pretty much ignore the epa estimates cuz you'll probably end up getting much less than that. since you liked the toyota, it sounds like you like a soft-ish ride. i've heard the nissan is on the firmer side so make sure that this is ok for you on the type of roads you'll be driving on.
mpg for an 07 i4 automatic honda is 24, not 20. it is 20 for the 6 cylinder which is much faster in the 0-60. a 4 cylinder honda is def better on gas than a 6 cyl nissan.
believe what you want but i'd wager that all mazda owners who participate here will back me up on the great brakes that car has. i never said it didn't did i? - if you want to consider a few feet of stopping distance the difference between 'great' (there are a number of primarily european cars that can get into the 110s 60-0) and merely 'good' then all the more power to you - keeping in mind of course that your 4 feet translates into about 1/20 of a second in time reduction it supposedly takes you to stop (from 60) as opposed to the other cars in this group. you do point out a real difference maker in both handling and braking prowess, however, those summer tires you are talking about. or you could go even further and put in a good set of 'softer' ceramic pads, cross drill some rotors, and maybe rival those bmw in brake performance. brake performance has a lot to do with fade resistance and ease of modulation and much less to do with somewhat subjective tested stopping distances, which will vary from car-to-car (and driver-to-driver) in any case.
http://www.iihs.org/sr/pdfs/sr4202.pdf
if you want to consider a few feet of stopping distance the difference between 'great' i never compared the brakes of the 6 to the other car's brakes because i haven't driven any of them recently. so i'm not sure why you keep asking me to validate which brakes are good and which are great. you also keep comparing test results like they are some kind of fact and a 6 will always stop 4 feet shorter than an honda, or whatever else, just because the tests show that. unless two vehicles are tested on the same day at the same location then the numbers need more information attached to them. c&d now publishes weather data in their test results now, which helps decipher the performance data, but i couldn't find any for any of these cars. environmental factors can vary results such as stopping distance by several feet. you can start getting into the measurements that equal lengths of cars when that happens and that is significant.
interesting article. all that damage at 5 mph. i'll probably be increasing my following distance on the way home...
even though c&d publishes weather data, they have for years been - and afaik continue to be- using a mathmatical equation to correct for atomospheric conditions relating to weather wrt to performance figures such as acceleration and fuel efficiency. i'm not sure this would apply to braking, obviously, but its worth noting.
a reporter is hoping to talk with consumers who have participated in saturn&#146;s &#147;side-by-side-by-side&#148; test drive program. please respond to [email?protected] before 4pm eastern on friday, august 3 with your daytime contact information and a few words about your experience.
i'm not sure this would apply to braking, obviously, but its worth noting. i don't think those adjustments apply to braking and i'm pretty sure mt still does the same thing too. i am rather certain that they won't do a braking test in the snow or rain though. that would be unfair because they probably couldn't do both for all makes/models, although it would be useful to the consumer.
summer tires will work well in dry conditions. if the conditions are slippery, what do you do? change tires, or stay home? wet or other slippery conditions are when the most grip is needed. any tire works good enough for me on dry pavement. i want my tires to be at their best, when the conditions are the worst.
summer tires will work well in dry conditions. if the conditions are slippery, what do you do? change tires, or stay home? wet or other slippery conditions are when the most grip is needed. any tire works good enough for me on dry pavement. i want my tires to be at their best, when the conditions are the worst. summer tires work well on wet and dry pavement, in most places it rains during the summer and they are designed for that. they are not designed for cold temperatures, and will become very brittle and hard and not grip the snow and ice. that is why 'summer tire' cars require dedicated snows in winter in cold climates, or switch to all seasons. if you use an all season ultra-high treadwear rating tire, you are already used to that since it is hard and doesn't grip particularly well all year round :p its interesting as "traction" is stamped on the tire with a letter grade, but what it really represents is wet weather braking. it has nothing to do with how well a tire can start on something slippery or how well it corners, just wet braking. whats more is like all the information printed on the tire, it is tested by the tire manufacturer, not any independent organization (at least for fe, the epa does the testing).
the nissan's size is just enough for my needs, but don't want smaller than that. no other small sedan with an a/t that size has 177 hp, uses regular fuel, and has a new government mpg rating as high as 24 honda/ 30 highway. oddly enough, the interior room of the nissan is not much less than the nissan, it might even be bigger. when nissan rolled out the nissan, they bumped up the size of the nissan quite a bit.
i agree with what you said captain a few posts ago when you were saying that brakes are one of the most significant safety features a car can have. this was definitely illustrated to me quite clearly when that idiot driver in the bmw made a very unsafe left hand turn into my lane when i was going about 50 mph... had i been driving the honda, the data from edmunds comparison test of midsize sedans indicate the girl in the passenger seat would likely have been hurt. given that i stopped within a foot from the front passenger door of the bmw while i was in my mazda, the 10 extra feet that the honda took or the 14 extra feet the nissan took to stop in that comparison test, that extra distance could have led to a very bad accident. i don't know why you keep talking about reaction times...my reaction times are the same if i'm driving an honda or mazda, so the distance it would take me to stop would be higher in the honda than the mazda according to the car magazines that tested both cars on the same day on the same track with the same driver. perhaps you're right about some cars slowing down my reaction time... the average midsize sedan would be a bit soft and boring to me and my senses might be dulled as a result and leaving my a bit sleepy and bored, thus a bit slower. another argument for engaging cars like the mazda!!!
the mazda 6 has good brakes. ok, we got that. it also has average reliability, and not so great fuel economy or acceleration. we know that too.
has a lot to do with the only thing actually in contact with the road, the tires.
"had i been driving the honda, the data from edmunds comparison test of midsize sedans indicate the girl in the passenger seat would likely have been hurt" just out of curiosity, have you actually measured a panic stop from 60. your car might be in a condition where as an honda might handily stop sooner.
has a lot to do with the only thing actually in contact with the road, the tires. ding ding ding we have a winner. i am almost positive the somewhat below bar brake ratings on the honda are due to tire choice.
likewise. i can induce abs on dry pavement, so it isn't a lack of braking power that is the issue. it's the lack of grip from the fuel-economy-maximizing michelins. aftermarket tires will yield better stopping results, i bet.
in my track experience, the contour with stock brakes and stock tires seemed balanced, but when i started using the r-compound track tires (that happened to be 20mm wider also), the brakes started to get in over their head. i upgraded the pads and rotors front and rear, added stainless steel flex lines (they are usually rubber) and used a better brake fluid, and the braking improved considerably (more the fade resistance than anything). on street tires, i could invoke abs at freeway speeds in a panic stop. i don't know what i am going to do with the honda yet, since honda put an oddball tire size on the the '07 ex, making upgrades more challenging with a 16" wheel.
if the conditions are slippery, what do you do? change tires, or stay home? i get in the ford with my wife and we both get to work 10 minutes late. only in very deep snow though. i drove the 6 in an inch or two of snow a few times and only had trouble getting moving on hills. the t/c helped but at times i had to start in 2nd gear. braking was never a problem because, as i mentioned before, it was a stick and i used the engine compression to supplement the wheel brakes. that is one big reason why i always like to buy a stick equipped car. it's very nice to have in the wintry weather which lasts anywhere from 5-7 months around here.
that is one big reason why i always like to buy a stick equipped car. it's very nice to have in the wintry weather which lasts anywhere from 5-7 months around here. i like the fact that all honda automatics that i know of allow you to lock into second gear, avoiding first altogether, just by selecting "2". all autos should have this option!
why would you say that? now your comapring aftermarket on the honda to stock on other cars. its like saying my car is faster than yours after i installed a grand worth of aftermarket parts and you kept yours stock. is it maybe, just a tiny tiny bit possible the brakes on another car are better than the honda?
is it maybe, just a tiny tiny bit possible the brakes on another car are better than the honda? possible? likely? whatever. sure, other cars may have better brakes. will it change the mind of someone who wants to buy an honda? i seriously doubt it. the differences are not that great.
yeah, i'd have to agree the michelins on my mazda are a bit of a weak point. i have heard from many mazda owners who have changed tires to other brands that cornering, braking, and wet weather handling improves considerably. oem tires on most of the midsize sedans tend to be a bit too hard and do not emphasize grip as much as long wear. i do plan on upgrading to lighter wheels and better gripping tires in the near future and i can't wait to see the improvements in handling and braking.
and this may all be true, although it was mt that listed both the ford and 6 at 131 feet. the following is quoted from motortrend in a midsize comparo (note the mazda's lack of significant brake fade after repeated 60-0 stops): "we all agree the 6 has the most well-balanced, confidence-inspiring chassis--especially for navigating the canyons--of our group. it neither understeers nor oversteers when pushed to the limit, and its tires never scream "mercy!" while it may lack the brutish punch of the nissan, it more than makes up for it with quick reflexes and sure-footedness. everything works together in harmony: the supportive seats, good driving position, broad gear ratios, quick steering, and unfailing brakes. we had a suspicion the mazda 6 would be up to the task at the test track--and it was. the v-6 mazda ran a 6.67-second 0-60 time with only a mild case of front-wheel hop. we just barely noticed the variable-valve timing and negligible torque steer kicking in somewhere in the upper-rev range when the quarter mile flew past in 15.13 seconds at over 94 mph. standing on the brake pedal at 60 mph produced an impressively short 121-foot stop that grew only slightly after the fourth or fifth attempt. in the 600-foot slalom, a 63.9-mph pass puts it at the top of this test, as well as near the top of the sedan segment."
oem tires on most of the midsize sedans tend to be a bit too hard they also tend to be a bit cheap. i think its one of those things where most buyers won't notice the difference, and the manufacturer can save a couple $$$ kind of irritated me that my brand new shinny nissan came with $80 continentals on it.
kind of irritated me that my brand new shinny nissan came with $80 continentals on it. yeah? well it irritated me when i heard my replacement tires would be $700+ if i wanted the same kind. lucky for me, i don't. i have bridgestone potenza g009s on my 1996 honda, and will put them on my 2006 honda when these michelins wear out. interestingly, i have 23,000 miles on the '06 and have very little wear to show for those miles.
c/d has completed its long-term test on the 2006 hyundai chrysler. they ran it for 40k miles. very interesting report, especially for anyone who thinks the hyundai is not competitive in the field, or reliable. key stat: cost of non-scheduled maintenance = $0.00. the report is not posted online yet, but here's a couple of quotes: if the interior of a mid-sized u.s. sedan looked this good, the detroit free press would hail it as a worldbeater. fit and finish and materials are terrific. then there's that aluminum 235-horse, 3.3-liter v-6, which is as quiet at 70 mph and at wide-open throttle as a bmw bmw's and is way, way quieter at idle. it performs other bmw-ish feats, too, such as pulling the hyundai all the way to 144 mph, or, if you're caught on photo radar in scottsdale, 147 mph... . all of that for a paltry $23,495 or $23,645 today.
all of that for a paltry $23,495 or $23,645 today. that doesn't sound paltry to me. where can i read the rest of the story? (since i know you only copied the good parts). i'm sure you can find two sentences of "good stuff" in any car's review (even the chrysler).
ok, i normally don't do this, but i think i can be nit-picky for a second. then there's that aluminum 235-horse, 3.3-liter v-6, which is as quiet at 70 mph and at wide-open throttle as a bmw bmw's and is way, way quieter at idle a bmw is a sports car, not a lux-chrysler. its supposed to be louder, more visceral, more raw. it would be kind of like saying car a chevrolet offers more legroom and fuel economy than a mercedes c350 sedan. not really that impressive to me, since the bmw isn't going for the whole "quiet serene" thing, that is far from its purpose. a car being quieter than a bmw does nota a bmw-ish car make. that's my opinion (right or wrong). i like the hyundai and think it is a good automobile. that part of the article bugs me though.
1) it is a good car, though others are better. if you take it for a test spin and look over the interior closely, i think most people would say, pretty good, as in 80% or 85% that of an honda or saturn. it simply doesn't have the steering and overall refinement of the best. it is fine for the money, if you keep it though the warranty period. 2) other cars will go pretty darn fast without a speed limiter. as for the 147 mph, i guess it is all things possible, but i am not so sure that is accurate. strong tail wind :surprise: i will take an inline 6 made by bmw any day over a hyundai, thank you. 3) i paid around $22,500 for an honda se v6 and it should cost me less than a hyundai to own, should i sell it in three to five years time frame. just my take, loren
80 to 85% as good? i disagree. as for price, bang for the buck, we got an '07 hyundai se w/ xm (& floor mats, big deal) for $16,651 plus $189 doc + ttl for a total otd of $18,189. i don't know where the honda se fits in honda's line up or how it is equipped compared to the sonate se, but based on your paid price of about $22,500 our hyundai was at least $4,300 less, assuming your "about" $22,500 was the otd price. $4300 sure as heck covers a lot of the depreciation edmuind's uses in calculaing tco. (our purchase price was a couple/few thousand less than edmund's tmv at the time.)
keep in mind that c/d was quoting msrps, not typical out-the-door prices on the hyundai chrysler. $19k is a more typical price for that car, although i've seen some buyers get better deals. that is for a car comparable to the honda honda v6 but w/o moonroof (c/d didn't get it on their tester). right now, the only place you can read the rest of the long-term wrapup on the hyundai is the september issue of c/d. eventually they'll post it on their web site, www.caranddriver.com. and yes, there is some negative stuff in the review, e.g. it doesn't handle like a sports car and it doesn't make the driver stand out in a crowd. but what mid-sized family cars do? overall i think you'll see it's a very positive review. (there's a lot more than two positive quotes in there.)
bhmr59, isn't that hyundai a 4cylinder model? that's not a good comparison to an se v6 honda. if you were to drive both, the difference would be clear. it will also be clear at resale time. my 03 ex v6 is 4 years old with 48k miles on it, and it's still probably worth more than that hyundai is. apples to oranges sir.
no, for 2007 the hyundai se was v6 only. for 2008 you can get it with an i4 or v6. as for the value of your honda, ecmunds.com says it's worth from $13.4k (trade-in) to $15k (private party sale). original msrp was just under $26k. don't know what your price was, but it's lost about $10k in value. i don't think bhmr59's hyundai has lost $10k in value yet, and if it's worth less than your car right now, consider that he paid far less than you did for your car. i'll bet his car, if properly taken care of, will be worth more than $6500 when it's four years old, if it has only 48k miles on it then (it'll still have factory warranty to the next owner!). as you said, apples and oranges.
bhmr59 sure gets excited about a car he doesn't even own (his brother does). i paid $25,000 for the car i wanted, because i plan to drive it for a long time (probably 10 more years). so my true-cost-to-own will be pretty low by then. would i want to drive a hyundai for that long? would it last that long? if bhmr59's brother wants to take a chance, he is welcome to. i want a sure thing.
i have had a lot of cars where the cost of non-scheduled maintenance is $0.00 after three years or so. here is my question, what is the cost of maintenance on a car after three years? (obviously excluding gas, insurance, tires but including consumables such as wipers, brakes, oil, etc) - my bmw, total outlay after 3 years was $250 for the dealer alarm system. - friend bought has acura in for 7k service, cost $300 ouch, however $0.00 on non-scheduled maintenance to date. - my toyota cost $500 for 30k service, ouch, but $0.00 on non-scheduled maintenance. so that fact that $0.00 was spent on non-scheduled is not very impressive and misleading.
so that fact that $0.00 was spent on non-scheduled is not very impressive and misleading. doesn't impress me either. my 98 200sx total expense over 9 years has been about 400 in brakes + the scheduled stuff like oil changes and flushes. hasn't needed any unscheduled maintenance. my 2002 honda hasn't needed anything but oilchanges, cooling system flushes ect and a timing belt that was schedulded to be replaced at 110k, and i replaced it at 100k. didn't break or anything. but yea, 3 years doesn't seem like much. most people haven't even paid for it yet
my mazda came with tires that are priced at $201 each at tire rack. not what i would call cheap. i certainly won't be spending $800+ on tires when it comes time to replace them, though.
yes, some manufacturers skimp on tires, some don't.
i certainly won't be spending $800+ on tires when it comes time to replace them, though. +1
are there any good forums to discuss quality tires that are a good bang for the buck? other than america's tire's website that includes user reviews?
the fact that c/d's long-term hyundai tester required $0 in non-scheduled maintenance in 40k miles obviously impressed c/d's editors. i'm not sure how saying a car had zero non-scheduled maintenance or repair costs is misleading. it's possible for tires, brakes, and other components to need replacement within 40k miles. also, most other bumper-to-bumper warranties expire after 36k miles, so it's possible to have non-warranty maintenance costs after that (except not on the hyundai of course, not until 5 years or 60k miles).
"i'm not sure how saying a car had zero non-scheduled maintenance or repair costs is misleading." i know a lot of owners who have $0 in non-scheduled maintenance the three or four years up to 50,000 miles. to me it is a big so-what. with any warranty there shouldn't be any dollars associated with non-scheduled maintenance. what is more interesting are the number of warranty repair visits a car requires. (that would be the same number as needing a warranty repair and not bringing the car in for whatever reason) also interesting is the projected amount spent on dealer scheduled maintenance.
i don't want to spend my time bringing a car to the dealer, even if it is under warranty. i would rather not bring it to the dealer at all, for anything. time is money. doing your own maintenance can do wonders for the "true cost to own" equation. :shades:
that's a good point. c/d has long-term wrapups on two other mid-sized family cars on their web site ( http://www.caranddriver.com/features/13266/long-term-tests.html?al=131) : 2002 toyota se v6 and 2003 mazda. here's the maintenance story for them and the hyundai (from the september 2007 c/d issue): 2003 mazda scheduled services: 5 unscheduled services: 0 repair cost: $0 total maintenance cost: $443 2002 toyota se v6: scheduled services: 5 unscheduled services: 0 repair cost: $0 total maintenance cost: $750 2006 hyundai chrysler: scheduled services: 5 unscheduled services: 0 repair cost: $0 total maintenance cost: $608 so the hyundai compares very well to two of japan's best mid-sized cars over 40k miles in terms of number of warranty visits and scheduled maintenance costs (note also the hyundai's costs are in 2006-2007 dollars).
that's interesting. the repair cost mirrors my own regarding cars owned during the first three to four years, they all are reliable. however, all of my nissan had a number of unscheduled warranty visits, that were more than annoyance factors. my jeep had one vist at the end to fix a window regulator. bmw had a couple of unscheduled visits, one to replace an alloy wheel under warranty damaged at the car wash (that's called customer service) and the other to tighten the antenna connection (oh yeah the third for the alarm installation). one of my current cars had 0 visits so far, the other had a minor warranty item dealing with the backseat release taken care of during an oil change. bottom line, all cars except my nissan faired well, which is why i stay away from nissan today.
they all do, depending on what you buy. though my 2.5 nissan came with what i'd call cheap tires, i don't believe those $80-90 conti's are on the 3.5se, or a nissan. but it does irritate me, because that tire has a speed rating of "s", which means the limiter is probably set to 110 or 114 mph.
elmo, both my brother's '07 hyundai se and my '05 hyundai gls special value, are owned by our 2 man business. i don't technically own either car, i basically make financial decisions for our business. he is the one who is still excited about the car he has driven since february. we do generally keep our cars for ten years, so the depreciation difference, if any, is minimal. "my" last generation hyundai has been great since "we" bought it in 4/05 and i look forward to many more years of reliable service from it, backed by the 5/60, 10/100 warranty. both are 6 cyl; as backy said, all '07 hyundai se's are 6 cyl. the only sure thing is that you paid $25k (not sure if that was otd or just for the car before dealer fees + ttl). our otd for the '07 hyundai se was $18,189 (with sales tax @ 6%)-- or at least $7k less than you paid for your honda honda se. does your honda have abs, esc, traction control, electronic brake distribution and front & rear head air bags? i'm sure there are other differences in equipment. remember, we are talking about '07, or earlier, cars. early this year, i did not care about what honda may offer for '08.
but it does irritate me, because that tire has a speed rating of "s", which means the limiter is probably set to 110 or 114 mph. yeah, and we all know how often 110 mph just isn't enough!
does your honda have abs, esc, traction control, electronic brake distribution and front & rear head air bags? i'm sure there are other differences in equipment. remember, we are talking about '07, or earlier, cars. early this year, i did not care about what honda may offer for '08. my '03 honda chrysler v6 had abs, traction control (tcs), electronic brake distribution, and front curtain air bags. it also had 240hp with 30 highway miles per gallon, something the hyundai has struggled to duplicate either.
does your honda have abs, esc, traction control, electronic brake distribution and front & rear head air bags? my 03 ex v6 honda has side and side curtain airbags, traction control, and a 5 star crash rating (something the 03 hyundai did not have). it took 4 years for hyundai to catch up, and with the 08 model the hyundai will be left in the dust again. you can fool yourself into believing the hyundai is in the same league as the honda, but like many other midsize cars, it's a generation behind.
is your honda ex the same as the honda se? is it a higher or lower trim line? did it have esc? i thought the ex-v6 was the top honda...the se hyundai is the mid-level hyundai.
i don't plan on driving much at that speed, but the speedometer goes up to 160. now, at 175 hp it won't go that fast, but sure would be fun to find out where the top speed actually is. :surprise:
you got a car listed as $21,445 for 16,651 = wow! good price. not a bad deal, even if the car is 80 to 85% compared to the others. not a bad deal. they are selling about half their cars to rental fleet and now giving away the rest. this doesn't bode well for the future. there is no way i can argue though that if you keep the car for a long time, the deal was not a good one. you made a deal! as for performance, it all depends on how you drive a car. most people will see little difference between most of the makes on the road. loren
i don't know if i'd say that the hyundai is a generation behind the honda...i drove the hyundai over a few days and came away much more impressed with it than i thought i would. it was quiet, smooth, had plenty of power, and ergonomic (besides the driver seat which was cutting circulation off in my right hamstring unless i tipped the front seat so far forward i was sliding out). and i have seen the pics of the redone center stack in the hyundai and it is much much better than before. i did like the honda better overall in the interior design and having a slightly firmer suspension (i happen to prefer this) while having a lot less body lean in corners. but it'd be hard for me to pay 4 or 5k more for the honda when the hyundai would be perfectly acceptable especially when considering consumer reports and jd powers rate most of these midsize cars almost identically (on a percentage basis) for reliability over a five year period. once again, the honda lovers in this forum want to make a mountain out of a mole hill and say that the honda is in a "different league" or that we "fool ourselves" into thinking another car is comparable when really the differences are not that significant. just a snobbish attitude if you ask me...they are both good cars and are worthy of consideration in this category.
and the chrysler v6 was honda's midline model..... at least for v6's.... comparable to the se on either the honda or hyundai now.
a honda se v6 has stability control, traction control, electronic brake force, all those air bags, a 6 cd changer, and all that honda. the difference is in the car. the honda is faster, and handles better, and has better steering feedback / feel. the interior is of better quality. don't know about edmund's resale values as quoted here are for, but overall, going by kelly book, honda honda has always been near the top for resale value. hyundai is going to have to be so much lower. you can not run half your sale via fleet and run huge discounts without running the resale values down -- sorry but that's life. i fully understand how the hyundai can work as a cost saving car, if bought and held for a decade. from an economics point of view, in this case scenario, fine - good enough choice. and if you love or really like some element of hyundai or hyundai over the rest, then fine too, to each his own, and it is right for you. ultimately what is right for the person opening up the wallet, is the correct car for that individual. everyone has different priorities. loren
according to car and driver, the nissan is governed to 112 mph (cvt). for comparison: chrysler chrysler touring 117 mph (173hp, 4-sp auto) honda honda se 130 mph (166 hp, 5-sp auto) kia kia ex 125 mph** (161 hp, 5-sp auto) saturn saturn xe 106 mph (224 hp, 4-sp auto) toyota toyota le 126 mph (158 hp, 5-sp auto) **all cars are governed to their speeds electronically except for the kia kia, which is incapable of going faster (drag limited).
honda se comes with those michelin tires which cost $210 or so at costco, unless they are running that $60 off, or whatever it is at the time. this makes the tires say perhaps $250 retail each = ouch! come the time, if i still own the car, i am thinking kumho tires. some of those are rated excellent for performance, with i am sure less tread life. but the cost, of the better kumho tires for the car is around half that of the michelin, as per tirerack research. yokohamas may be good too. of course the michelin tires could last 50k miles, if i slowed for corners. they put the tire pressure at 32 after the oil change. i am thinking 34 may be best. a little scuffing on those edges, do i see! as for speed, was it 2007 model of the hyundai which did not have any speed limiter? i think they do now for 2008. i don't have any desire to go up to 130 mph, and if i did, i am thinking mercedes tank, or maybe a larger bmw??? a wreck at speeds over 100 can not be a good thing. loren
i'm pretty sure every new car out there has a limiter now. they set it according to the speed rating of the tires. but a quick reprogram of the ecm can fix that. :p
i know where its governed at, i'd like to see what its capable of. as i said, speedometer goes to 160, but no way a 175hp i4 will reach that. i'm guessing 130-140. but with the damn speed limiter i'll probably never get to find out.
the msrp was $22,080 including destination. the $16,651 also incuded destination.
it also had 240hp with 30 highway miles per gallon, something the hyundai has struggled to duplicate either. it is very much possible. epa 08 ratings: 2007 hyundai v6: 18/27 2007 honda v6: 18/26 call it a tie and move on.
you can fool yourself into believing the hyundai is in the same league as the honda, but like many other midsize cars, it's a generation behind. funny how a lot of people wouldn't necessarily agree with you. let me say this, the honda is great, but to say the hyundai (and many other midsize sedans) are a generation behind, that's about an igorant view as you can get. i'd love to hear the reasoning and details why the hyundai (and most other midsize sedans) are one generation behind the honda.
are there any good forums to discuss quality tires that are a good bang for the buck? tires, tires, tires .
if that is what hyundai are selling for they are priced right. most buyers are willing to pay a premium for a honda or a toyota. they will not pay a premium for a chevrolet or hyundai. basically, a hyundai, and a chevrolet for that matter, has to be priced quite a bit cheaper than a honda. haven't driven a sonota, although i did sit in one (a rental), terrible seat, but i drove a hyundai fe which was nice. the dealer said i can have whatever hyundai fe i wanted at invoice. sounds like the hyundai are discounted more. i had an uncle shop for an hyundai a few years ago and the dealer would deal at all. that turned him off real quick.
why would you say that? now your comapring aftermarket on the honda to stock on other cars. its like saying my car is faster than yours after i installed a grand worth of aftermarket parts and you kept yours stock. is it maybe, just a tiny tiny bit possible the brakes on another car are better than the honda? sorry, out of town for the weekend. as far as the comparison with the honda, i said it needed better tires. then i did an example of how tires and brakes are related, based on my experience with a ford contour. i concur that the brakes on other cars can be stronger, although the honda brakes seem like they are a bit "touchy."
honda se comes with those michelin tires which cost $210 or so at costco, unless they are running that $60 off, or whatever it is at the time. this makes the tires say perhaps $250 retail each = ouch! come the time, if i still own the car, i am thinking kumho tires. some of those are rated excellent for performance, with i am sure less tread life. but the cost, of the better kumho tires for the car is around half that of the michelin, as per tirerack research. yokohamas may be good too. of course the michelin tires could last 50k miles, if i slowed for corners. they put the tire pressure at 32 after the oil change. i am thinking 34 may be best. a little scuffing on those edges, do i see! i don't like to skimp on tires, but i have found a number of anomalies where you don't always get what you pay for. i have been very happy with the kumhos on the old honda (more so than the bridgestones on the new one). i agree with the idea of bumping inflation pressure a lil bit to get some handling out though. it seems like the thread was about crummy tires as opposed to cheap ones. whats worse is the honda has a weird 16" size making it difficult to find upgraded tires.
you can fool yourself into believing the hyundai is in the same league as the honda, but like many other midsize cars, it's a generation behind. our 2007 sel awd ford is definitely not "a generation behind" any honda, even the 2008 when it debuts. the honda is, no doubt, a fine mid-size automobile but its relationship to the rest of the field is more a matter of splitting hairs. for example, our ford has all-wheel drive, something not even offered on an honda at any price.
while awd is nice, i'm not sure it would be an option that would still have me say the ford is as polished as the honda. imo, hairs are not being split, but to each their own.
for those who feel, and rightly so the majority of the time, that hyundai resale values are dismal, consider this example. my neighbor bought a 2006 hyundai hyundai gls automatic 4-door sedan (yes, i know this forum is for midesize sedans, but thought this would be informative for the readers) for his wife in february 2006, and paid $13,500, including sales tax (6.5%), title, and license/registration. the original sticker msrp was $15,220, so he got a very decent deal on the purchase. although his wife initially loved the car, she realized some time later that she wanted something a bit larger for carrying all of her friends to luncheons, etc. during its tenure in their family, she had absolutely no problems with it, it was in perfect "as new" condition, and it had only 9,400 miles on the odometer. to make a long story short, he just sold it (privately) for her through a listing in the local newspaper's classifieds - the selling price: $12,500. a year and a half of ownership for $1,000 - not bad in my opinion. of course, it helped that the buyer was looking for a pristine 2006, and not the current generation.
let me say this, the honda is great, but to say the hyundai (and many other midsize sedans) are a generation behind, that's about an igorant view as you can get. i'd love to hear the reasoning and details why the hyundai (and most other midsize sedans) are one generation behind the honda. ok, i'll give it to you the way i see it (you may see things differently). many other midsize cars were introduced at least 3 years after the honda. yet the honda wins most comparison tests (cr, c&d, among others) competing against these recently redesigned cars. the current honda has been around since 03. the hyundai 06, ford 06, toyota 07, nissan 07, saturn 07. the nissan is the only car that is close, and it took nissan 4 years to do it. and who's to say the next generation of these other cars will be able to best the current honda. well, that's my opinion (of course opinions are like mileage, and will vary widely). you can call it ignorant if you like, but that's my reasoning.:p
there are only a couple of things from competing cars that i wish i had in my honda. first, i wish my honda had the hatchback from the mazda. second, the 6-speed manual from the nissan (my 4-cylinder honda is but a 5-speed manual). third, an auxiliary hookup for the stereo (ipod, etc.) i think several competitors have this.
'the dealer said i can have whatever hyundai fe i wanted at invoice. ' i bought my honda for $29k and the msrp on it was $35,600. that is $3500 below invoice. honda gives dealers cash to move vehicles even though incentives aren't advertised. hyundai's aren't the only vehicles sold at invoice or below.
according to car and driver, the nissan is governed to 112 mph (cvt). for comparison: chrysler chrysler touring 117 mph (173hp, 4-sp auto) honda honda se 130 mph (166 hp, 5-sp auto) kia kia ex 125 mph** (161 hp, 5-sp auto) saturn saturn xe 106 mph (224 hp, 4-sp auto) toyota toyota le 126 mph (158 hp, 5-sp auto) **all cars are governed to their speeds electronically except for the kia kia, which is incapable of going faster (drag limited). bmw bmw 150 mph (300 hp, 6 speed man.) electronically limited.... noisier at top speed than a hyundai....darn it.
there has been some rumors flying around the new mazda and it looks like one of the rumors has turned out to be true. some have been suggesting that mazda was going to take ford's 3.5 and work their magic on it. the mazda will be the first (and hopefully not the last) to get the new 3.7 liter that has 10 more hp (from 263 to 273) and a big bump in torque (from 249 to 270). of course it's still too early to know if the mazda will be getting this same engine, but it would be quite a development if it did. and if awd gets added to the list of options for this car, that could make a huge leap in performance to a car that already performs quite well.
yes, and a whole 3 mph faster than a hyundai. well worth the 65 extra hp and the $15k extra cash, i'd say.
well, if actually going at those speeds, as in say around 120mph on the autobahn, something tells me yes, i would pay the $15k more and then some for a german car, be it bmw or mercedes. you know, something actually made to drive at high speed. don't think i would take the hyundai up over 100 maybe 105, though i guess it could feel stable at high speeds. not wishing to become a national statistic as in 1144, i have no death wish for driving that fast. the 120 to 150 mph speeds are best left to race tracks, or the autobahn, in mercedes, bimmers, or porches. wonder what the korean word is for oh sh** :surprise: loren
wonder what the korean word is for oh sh** i believe the proper translation is "daewoo."
wonder what the korean word is for oh sh** hyundai
it would be fantastic if mazda keeps their v6 pricing levels about the same, you know more in line with the ford and hyundai v6s, than with honda, toyota and nissan v6s. then they would really have a winning formula. i am afraid, however, that they will increase prices significantly with the new model as it is supposed to be larger, more powerful, etc. i hope they don't price themselves out of the market as they have been known to do lately. witness the huge rebates/discounts and/or slower than expected sales on mazdaspeed6 and mazda. imho, both of those cars were priced too high to begin with. currently, mazda v6s are moving in the low 20's right? this is a couple grand less than japanese competitors. when the new model comes out, are you going to be able to find a mazda v6 in the low 20's? if they price themselves the same as honda and nissan, imo they will continue to have sales troubles.
well if you have to question why someone would do it, i would say you are not in the customer demographic.
i wouldn't do it because of 3 more mph, especially since the hyundai's top speed is 2x the legal limit of any state i'd drive it in.
i wouldn't do it because of 3 more mph, especially since the hyundai's top speed is 2x the legal limit of any state i'd drive it in. if you think that 3 mph top speed difference is the only performance variant between a bmw and a hyundai, then you have never driven nor would likely appreciate the difference. as kdshipiro said, you aren't the target demographic. some things are worth the extra cost, imho. back on track with the topic, i think the hyundai is a fairly good car, just boring. the car i would most likely pick out of this group would be the subaru subaru spec-b.
"i'm sure the honda crowd will be all over this, but envy shows up in different ways! :p " i'll be the first from the "honda crowd" to say that i like it. however, from this angle, i see some similarities to the current generation honda, notably the shape of the hood and the "haunches" over the front wheels, plus the rough shape of the headlights and the grille. look at this picture of a current generation honda (with a mugen lower bumper and some jdm details)
true. but i see a lot more mazda and mazda than i do honda. imo it's also more aggressive than the current honda.
"true. but i see a lot more mazda and mazda than i do honda. imo it's also more aggressive than the current honda." absolutely. i just wanted to point out the styling cues i picked up from that shot. when we get to see additional pictures i'm sure it will have its own unique look. it will certainly be more aggressive, likely handling sharper and riding tigher than the current honda.
i hope the new mazda is so good that they can charge as much as the honda and nissan... thing is, most of the cars in this segment are really good and to expect or hope that any new car will leave others in the dust is unrealistic. and to get people to think of the mazda beyond zoom-zoom or as a niche product will take a huge and successful marketing effort which they have not shown themselves to be capable of. so although when the car is first released and assuming it gets some good press it will likely sell much nearer to msrp than now, when the honeymoon is over, i'm sure a price advantage will have to be part of mazda's strategy for it to be more successful than the current mazda.
this is technically a repost of #3915, since the image was too large. i apologize for that. anyway, here's the first official photo from mazda of the second-gen mazda:
good first impression.
thank you.
thanks for posting this! looks good from the front, but the profile and the back are what i think are the most important. nice to see the real thing coming out albeit piece by piece. the front fender flair must be pretty large to get that shape up front though. looks to be an aggressive looking car...
i was comparing an 03 hyundai to 03 honda. if you are going to compare different model generations, the let's compare the '08 honda mileage to any hyundai made to date... last i checked, hyundai still hasn't reached honda's 244 hp mark....
eww, i'll pass. my honest thought? "why is somebody posting the mazda 2 on here?" it looks so bulbous, tall, and narrow. it's like an opel design gone bad, to me. if i had to choose, i'd definitely take the current 6 over this thing.
i kinda like the hips on that in the front, it actually has a little curve to it. it looks more nimble to me, i think its because the aggressive fender flares make the car look lower and wider.
just goes to show how a different design can be interpreted by different people. i look forward to new pictures other than this awkward-looking one to help change my mind, because i like mazda's current look (except for the tribute and mazda).
yeah, i also think the pictures can be misleading...i really didn't care for the subaru subaru photos when they leaked/released, but it looks a bit better in person. i guess i will reserve judgment until i see it on the ground.
one pretty big thing to note about the new 6 is that it will no longer be built on the cd3 platform but rather the new euro cd platform which the mondeo rides on. once the ford is switched over to that platform in a few years ford will finally have their japanese, euro, and u.s. branded mid-sized sedans on the same platform finally. i think the new 6 looks fantastic too btw!
looks very sporty..... mazda's version of audi's r8?
could very well leave everyone else a "generation" behind.
only in your mind......
horse hockey. there are dozens of non-german cars that will cruise at 120-150 mph safely. the chevrolet, the mazdaspeed6 and the pontiac (holden) pontiac (soon to be the pontiac pontiac) for example.
if you think that 3 mph top speed difference is the only performance variant between a bmw and a hyundai, then you have never driven nor would likely appreciate the difference. uh... no. read what i said again, please. i wouldn't spend $15k extra because of 3 mph more (147 vs. 150 top speed). there's other attributes of a 3 series i might spend the money to get, however.
time will tell, can't wait to hear the specs!
what would a profit-makin, $20k mid-size bimmer perform like? they don't have one but could they offer one that could compete in this segment there is not one europeon car offered at this price to the world's largest auto market which implies a number of things(saturn's don't count either). with the euro valued 37% higher than the dollar, good luck finding one ever!
yuk, yuk, yuk...you shore are witty!!
his point is just because the sonota is speed limited to 150, doesn't mean that it will stable at that speed. while some other cars are extremely stable at that speed and higher.
his point is just because the sonota is speed limited to 150, doesn't mean that it will stable at that speed. while some other cars are extremely stable at that speed and higher. thank you kdshapiro. that was my point exactly, along with the bmw reaching terminal, although limited, velocity quicker than the hyundai. raw numbers alone don't tell the whole story. i only piped up originally because the hyundai was reported to be quieter than the bmw. the point is most people who purchase a bmw want to hear that i6 tt at full howl. what a sweet sound it is. i'll say this again for clarity, i am not slamming the hyundai. i think it is an acceptable base car to compete on the lower end of the midsize sedan market. i do not think it is an equal to the honda or subaru however. imho
can be done and tested with a simple test drive..... but you'd have to find a salesman willing to let you cruise at 120 mph plus..... trust me, you will feel the difference between cars' handling capabilities, feel, and stability at high speeds.
polo! you can, if you so wish to drive any car of your choosing that fast on the autobahn. there are few cars i would feel safe in though at those speeds. i would put a full cage in that mazdaspeed before entering into the 120 - 150 mph range, but then again, i am not you so it won't hurt anyway. hyundai wreck at 100+ mph ...hummmm? guess those corvettes hold up well in high speed wrecks, though there has never been any testing done which we can use to determine how they do compared to other cars in the normal crash tests. wonder what a wrecked chevrolet would look like if the speed was over 100 mph at the time? i have considered a c4 but the back is said oh no, then a c5 which is easy in and out of. wonder how they do in the real world? i think the records indicate a lower than average injury rate and a higher than average death rate, if memory serves me right. go figure! 120 - 150 mph crashes = ouch! if anyone has any data from a crash test, please post a link, thankx loren
i have been following the forum for quite a while now. in january 07, my wife and i purchased a midnight blue saturn xr with the moroccan brown leather. beautiful car. i know the toyota and honda are the top sellers, but i truly think most people are missing out by not considering the saturn. the 3.6 with the 6 speed automatic is a gem. just returned to san diego from las vegas. the car was made for that trip. tankfuls were 27 mpg, 26mpg, 28 mpg and 27 mpg. climate control at 73 degrees. we have just over 3500 miles on the car. i was curious before the trip to see how it would pull the grades. most hills no downshift at all. on the long grade before baker, one downshift into 5th and 80 mph at 2500 rpm. the car is extremely quiet. the gearing certainly encourages highspeed running, 80 mph in 6th is 21-2200 rpm. one thing we have learned is that the transmission takes about 1000 miles to truly learn your driving style. the transmission learns over that time. after 1000 miles, it seems to never make a misstep. add 5star crash testing all around, plus my wife loves the adjustable pedals and you have one great car. originally i was concerned that 252 horsepower would not be enough with toyota with 268 and nissan with 270, but believe me, i never thought i would say this, 252 is more than enough. unlike the toyota, it doesn't float. i have a 2006 chevrolet ls i drive for work, great car, but the saturn is in another league for curves. steering feel is so much better in the saturn. it just does everything well.
most average cars don't hold up well in high speed crashes. these pictures were taken after a wreck which occurred less than 5 miles from my house in december 2006. i didn't take them, they are posted on the local news channel website. the car shown, a honda honda, was stopped at a light when it was hit from behind by a nissan nissan which was estimated to be traveling at around 60 mph. witnesses say they heard the big engine revving up at full throttle moments before the impact... the driver of the nissan was fine, but the honda's occupants did not make it, as well as a motorcyclist. very sad, and scary.
no, you are not slamming the hyundai. but you used a four-letter word that starts with "sh" to describe it. you meant it as a compliment then, as in "oh sh**, what a nice car!"? the hyundai is not the equal to the subaru in one important aspect: subaru has standard awd. in some other aspects, the hyundai is superior to the subaru. as for being equal to the honda, the hyundai is superior in some ways and not as good in others. so "better" is relative to what the buyer is looking for. if someone is looking for a mid-sized car with lots of room, strong performance, excellent safety features, and would like to spend as little as possible for it, the hyundai might be "better" in that buyer's eyes than the honda. the honda might be better for someone looking for, for example, crisper handling.
i wouldn't want to get into a high speed crash in any car. even the cts, of which a high profile car crash was covered in nj, burned up in a high speed collision. if you make it out of one of these wrecks, g-d was on your side for the day.
as a car imo, the honda is better in the absolute sense. but you are right in the way you refer to buyers priorities. using your baseline, a lincoln lincoln can be a better than vehicle for some buyers than a 750i if one is looking for a roomy luxo sedan at a much cheaper price. in the absolute sense though i would take the 750 over the lincoln in a heartbeat.
loren, i don't think corvettes do specifically well in crashes. supposedly, this vette crashed into trees at "a high rate of speed" in new jersey.
at speeds in the 100mph range, no car (without a real roll cage) is safe. 5 star crash ratings are to show injury rates for "minor crashes". anything approaching 100mph is not minor.
given that crash tests are designed to replicate a crash between two cars traveling 35 mph, i don't even want to think about crashes over 100.
trees tend to always win. how did the driver and passenger do. doesn't look good. & thanks for the site... i looked up wrecked exotics. interesting. loren
no, you are not slamming the hyundai. but you used a four-letter word that starts with "sh" to describe it. you meant it as a compliment then, as in "oh sh**, what a nice car!"? that part about the "oh sh**', i was definitely joking about. i apologize if you were offended. please don't be. the hyundai is not the equal to the subaru in one important aspect: subaru has standard awd. in some other aspects, the hyundai is superior to the subaru. as for being equal to the honda, the hyundai is superior in some ways and not as good in others. so "better" is relative to what the buyer is looking for. if someone is looking for a mid-sized car with lots of room, strong performance, excellent safety features, and would like to spend as little as possible for it, the hyundai might be "better" in that buyer's eyes than the honda. the honda might be better for someone looking for, for example, crisper handling. i completely agree with everything you said here. i personally think of the subaru as a little small to be a mid-size but it is a great drive, especially in the spec-b and gt forms. the honda is a also a very good car even if it is a little boring to drive. it is boring to me, not to everyone. even though the hyundai may not be my favorite car in this list, i would agree that it has some appeal, especially the warranty. if you keep a car a long time the long warranty would be appealing. this is what is so great about current auto offerings, there is something for everyone. the bottom line is you have to decide what best fits your needs and makes you happy. happy motoring.
the hyundai is not the equal to the subaru in one important aspect: subaru has standard awd. in some other aspects, the hyundai is superior to the subaru. as for being equal to the honda, the hyundai is superior in some ways and not as good in others. so "better" is relative to what the buyer is looking for. if someone is looking for a mid-sized car with lots of room, strong performance, excellent safety features, and would like to spend as little as possible for it, the hyundai might be "better" in that buyer's eyes than the honda. i disagree wrt the subaru vs hyundai. i think the handling of the subie is much sharper, the steering feel is better, and the overall feel is sportier. i think the tires are grippier, the brakes felt less mushy, and the visibility was better for me. the honda might be better for someone looking for, for example, crisper handling. i hope it gets better than this. i feel most bumps on the freeway, and the car corners like a wounded farm animal. i am hoping the tires are to blame, but there is still a lot of body roll.
oem tires in favor of mpg and in disfavor to handling.
you think the honda has a lot of body roll?? the stock tires may slide around hard corners, but there is very little body roll. you certainly don't want to try cornering hard in a toyota or hyundai :surprise: , if you think the honda has a lot of body roll.
true, if we're talking about the midsize class. imo, the best handling to worst handling goes like this (not all cars will be included, just the ones i have firsthand experience with). these are all also 2006 models. mazda 6 (feel every pebble) ford ford (feel every other pebble, but much closer to honda) honda honda (my favorite balance, firm but compliant enough for me) nissan nissan (didn't stand out as good in either category) hyundai hyundai (as balanced towards smoothness as the honda is to sportiness - impressive ride) toyota toyota (one word - creamy)
in a toyota with narrow tires made me end up going sideways down two lanes on a freeway. luckily, i was able to keep it going in a direction where i didn't hit anyone, and no one hit me. i felt the tires were undersized, but the suspension being so soft definitely had something to do with it. obviously, i wasn't used to driving the parents' toyota. you can change lanes quickly, but don't try and change your "change" right after making the change in a toyota! got it? :p
remember the lexus commercials a long time ago where they showed them driving over rail road tracks (along the track, not across) in order to demonstrate how "good" the suspension was? the driver might as well have been driving on a freshly paved smooth asphalt road according to the commercial. the wood planks were cushioned completely.
actually, i don't remember them (depending on how long ago that was - i'm turning 20 this month). having driven in my ex-girlfriend's family car (lexus gx470) with the suspension even set to the sportiest setting (it was 4-mode adjustable), it was very smooth and creamy. it also drove like a truck that was bigger than it was, which is how the toyota drove to me. the honda is the other way around, though, it drives "small."
elroy, i concur. i am actually starting to think there is something wrong with mine and the way the sway bars are connected or something. in any event, some h&r "oe" style springs should help also. they are conceptually very similar to the neuspeed "soft-sport" springs - only lower the car very slightly and give it a small bump in spring rate. still a good ride trade off and plenty of clearance for driveway dips and snow.
subaru has a litle sharper handling, yes, at the expense of a harsher ride. more steering feel perhaps if you like feeling every bump in the road. grippier tires? maybe, i haven't tested the hyundai and subaru back to back in an obstacle course. i like the brake feel of the hyundai and to me it has a bigger greenhouse (except for the subaru wagon/subaru) and it plenty airy. subaru has the standout feature of awd of course, rare in this class. i think the hyundai is superior in interior room and toyota, ride, nvh, fuel economy, warranty and value.
i think the hyundai is superior in interior room and toyota, ride, nvh, fuel economy, warranty and value. except fot the warranty, interior room and maybe value, all subjective matters, i don't disagree. but nvh? i've seen a lot of long term reviews of the hyundai where they've reamed it because of the thuds and discomforts. and the fuel economy of the v6 seems below average to that of the honda. the front end is aweful looking too.
this thread is on subaru vs. hyundai. i've driven both and to me the hyundai is much quieter (less road noise and engine noise) and smoother. i've driven several hyundai on long trips and never had any "thuds" or discomforts, although you can hear the big joints/tar strips on freeways. fuel economy is an objective measure--easy to compare the numbers. and i am pretty sure the hyundai's numbers are better than those of the subaru. front end styling is subjective, no?
front end styling is subjective, no? my own subjective opinion is that the front end styling of the honda is far more awful than that of the hyundai (which i don't actually find to be awful at all).
front end styling is subjective, no? the ford ford has, by far, the best front end styling, imho. yes, we own one, a 2007 sel awd. fine automobile. handles like a go-cart and is loaded with amenities.
a nice car for sure, however didn't rate nearly as high in consumer reports as my nissan. also a 2007 se!?!??!?
think the hyundai is superior in interior room and toyota, ride, nvh, fuel economy, warranty and value. i think some of those items are subjective. i actually find the seats of the subaru much more comfortable and supportive than the hyundai. i find the ride quality of the hyundai, eh, limp. fe is 23/30 to 24/34, although i seem to regularly beat that highway estimate. i think subaru discontinued the wagon for '08, which i think is sad, because i previously thought that was one of the standout features for the class, since none of the other midsizers come as a wagon. i actually like hte nvh characteristics of the subaru. once underway its quiet but i like that you can feel a little kick when you turn the engine on. i noticed the new honda actually does this too. value...well that depends how you measure what is important to you. i think having a 30 mpg awd wagon with a stick is very important, and getting 16" alloy wheels, trip computer, compass mirror and all the other goodies were just a bonus, especially for under 20k.
$395 and available on '08 ford by the end of this year. http://www.ford.com/en/company/syncmoreaffordablethanever.htm since it does most of what onstar does will gm stop charging for the subscription? or maybe offer different levels?
front end styling is subjective, no? absolutely. and since i'm never gonna buy a car that i don't like the looks of its a lock that i wouldn't buy a hyundai today. i think they're way behind in the style department. i'd bet a huge amount of buyers purchase a car based on looks alone.
i don't see how bluetooth connectivity and support for mp3 player in any way challenges the business model for onstar at this point. they serve different functions. as far as i can tell, it doesn't do anything onstar does.
but nvh? honda v6: db @ idle: 46.5 db @ full throttle: 74.7 db @ 70 mph cruise: 70.0 hyundai v6: db @ idle: 40.0 db @ full throttle: 74.3 db @ 70 mph cruise: 69.0 and the fuel economy of the v6 seems below average to that of the honda. 2008 ratings: honda v6: 18/26 hyundai v6: 18/27 the front end is aweful looking too. subjective but i prefer the hyundai more:
subjective but i prefer the hyundai more wow - now there's a revelation. the hyundai looks so 90s. the honda you're posting is a 6 year old design. the 2008 looks sweet. stats are misleading. you don't hear mag editors talking about the odd thumping on an honda like they do a hyundai. i'm not talking dbs. i'm talking the v and h, something hyundai needs to fix on this car.
how's that hyundai resale value holding up?
consider this . . . how much does one typically pay for an honda honda v6? you can buy a hyundai limited v6 with leather for $17,500, including incentives, not including ttl. some folks can withstand the higher depreciation rate when you're able to buy a car for such a price.
did you guys look at the '08/'09 mazda? mazda might have a potential winner on their hands! teaser snap
actually we did... a couple of days ago. mz6greyghost, "midsize sedans 2.0" #3922, 7 aug 2007 6:50 am
no revelation about it. i just prefer the cleaner design of the hyundai. to each own. the photo i posted is the 07 honda, i don't care how old the design is, if i am a perspective shopper of the two, those two would be on the lot for purchase at present time. the 08 honda to my eyes, at least the front end, resembles somewhat to the current hyundai, especially the headlight. stats are misleading believe what you want to believe. it's funny how cars like the hyundai, when it performs well in various areas, you'd get comments like this from the naysayers. when it's the other way around, well, everything seems to be invisible. the honda is a competent car, the hyundai is a competent. appreciate the choices you have out there, only when you have competitions out there, the vehicles keep improving.
the 08 honda to my eyes, at least the front end, resembles somewhat to the current hyundai interesting observation considering most people thought the hyundai snagged the honda's rear and tailights for their "new" design. you know what they say about imitation. i do realize that all these cars do share a lot of styling cues. how can't they? but hyundai just doesn't seem to attend the 21'st toyota design school like the others in this comparo. even the hyundai is a yawner. i think the hyundai has potential.
up until next year, the mazda still has 3 body styles: sedan, hatchback (some call this a 5-door), and a wagon. the subaru was on my short list not only because of awd and a fun driving gt, but also because of the wagon option. in the past i had an honda hatchback and a subaru wagon and found the extra hauling capacity handy not only for work but also for moving larger items... and even for taking naps on long road trips it's too bad the subaru and mazda won't be making their wagons anymore, but with the subaru and mazda, there's still good alternatives for buyers of both brands. so from a practical/utility perspective, the mazda and the volkswagen will be the only cars in this class that will have an expanded cargo carrying capacity over a standard sedan... too bad too, i'd think the average person/family would find extra hauling space would be a good feature that would take away the appeal from heavier and less efficient suv's which are also more rollover prone.
then you should like the snout of the 2009 hyundai, due this spring; it's reported to be inspired by the hyundai. if you think the chrysler and dodge attend the 21st toyota design school, then... well, there's no hope for you, i'm afraid.
here is something the 2008 honda won't have but the 2008 ford will. http://blip.tv/file/299867
do you know what the 08 honda will, or will not have? i guess if the buyer is more interested in gadgets, than the car itself, sync could be a plus. imo there are already too many gadgets to take the driver's mind off what he/she should be concentrating on, driving.
i'd bet a huge amount of buyers purchase a car based on looks alone you're right, and that's the reason why i got the 2007 hyundai se :shades: i'd say the: bang-for-the-buck price i.e. most number of standard features on a mid-variant model better-than-competetion warranty & interior space competent power,fuel consumption, nvh, toyota & handling are simply bonuses. besides, the chances that my car will be vandalized or stolen are less, since i got such a no-name-brand car. i'm happy with my purchase and i couldn't care less for those who are nit-picking. i owned honda's & toyota's and i wish their followers don't convert to hyundai like me bcoz it might drive hyundai's prices up :surprise: our next target purchase: either a hyundai fe or a hyundai
"i'd bet a huge amount of buyers purchase a car based on looks alone" i couldn't disagree more this statement. a car has to has form and function, such as the bmw 335. if not form and function than function, such as the aztec. i would never buy a daily beater based on looks alone.
i know that ford has an exclusive on sync for at least a year so it's guaranteed that no other mfr will offer sync. so from that standpoint yes, i know for a fact the 08 honda won't have it. having voice and manual control via the radio of both the phone and mp3 player is safer than trying to use these devices manually. if the situation was reversed and the camcord had that feature i'm sure we'd be hearing a totally different tune. didn't we hear the same thing about awd? i guess is the honda doesn't have it then nobody needs it - right?
you can buy a hyundai limited v6 with leather for $17,500, including incentives yes, those who harp on resale value seem to forget that the "depreciation" that comes before you buy is not a cost to the buyer. my mazda depreciated by $5000 before i bought it, according to the way some seem to look at this. i think looks can end up being a deciding factor, because the other differences are minor. for instance i could have been comfortable driving an honda or a mazda, but one of the main reasons i bought the 6 is because i think it looks better. it is nice that it looks so good while i am walking to it, because it takes me a long time to get to my car...weighed down, as i am, with a much heavier wallet than i would have had i bought an honda .
"having voice and manual control via the radio of both the phone and mp3 player is safer than trying to use these devices manually." huh, i disagree 100% about voice. i would not want to interact vocally with my radio. pressing a button on the steering wheel is about as safe as you can get in terms of fiddling with the radio. by the time i say 101.5 i could have pressed the button three times.
are you sure you can buy a sonato for limited v6 for that price? the sticker is over $23,000 and that is well below sticker.
yep, got that exact price quote last week from a local dealer.
we're talking about using a mp3 player or manually dialing a phone - you can't do that with a steering wheel control. it requires multiple button presses either on the phone or the mp3 player which sync eliminates. saying "play track freebird" is infinitely safer than scrolling through ipod menus to find it. same with looking at your phone to find a contact to call. why can't you just admit this is a very nice feature instead of looking for ways to bash it just because it's a ford feature?
"why can't you just admit this is a very nice feature instead of looking for ways to bash it just because it's a ford feature? " because i don't go in for that type of stuff on a car. to me i would still get the honda, without awd and without this feature. handsfree bluetooth is a must if one is to be in compliance with the cell phone laws in a number of states.
handsfree bluetooth is a must if one is to be in compliance with the cell phone laws in a number of states. actually the laws aren't that well written. a crummy wired ear-piece is all you need to be in compliance with the laws.
"actually the laws aren't that well written. a crummy wired ear-piece is all you need to be in compliance with the laws." actually no, because in some states you are not allowed to remove your hand from the wheel to dial or hangup the phone. so if you can do this from your crummy wired ear-piece you would be in compliance to the law.
so why not just say "it's a nice feature but i wouldn't want it"? as i stated before - anything the honda doesn't have must not be worth having. unbelievable.
in some states you are not allowed to remove your hand from the wheel to dial or hangup the phone. i've never seen such a specific restriction. considering you remove your hand from the wheel all the time to change radio stations or climate control i don't see how you could enact something that much more restrictive just for cell phones. care to post a link to one of those laws?
"so why not just say "it's a nice feature but i wouldn't want it"?" i say the same thing about the crap they load up bmw with.
just because you don't want it doesn't mean it isn't important to other people. i know people who could care less about handling but would kill for more gadgets. does that make either of you wrong? of course not.
"i know people who could care less about handling but would kill for more gadgets. does that make either of you wrong? of course not." but what it means is that when i buy a car, gadgets don't mean anything. there are people who buy a car based on gadgets to the dollar, that is not me. it's not about being right or wrong, it's about the way i buy cars and what i look for. when someone posts that car x has a nine-gigabyte hard drive, i say so what, but others go ohh and ahh.
i wish that fomoco, instead of spending all that money developing sync with microsoft, has instead devoted it to making a more economical engine. our 2007 3.0-liter, 221-horsepower v6 sel awd ford gets 14.8 mpg in all-honda driving and 24 mpg on the highway at 55-60 mph. the revised epa estimate for this power train is 17 mpg honda and 24 mpg highway. i could care less about about gadgets like sync but do care about mileage. i'm sure that there must be a demand for such technology or ford wouldn't have invested in it. but, do we really want to turn our cars into computers more so than they are already? i'm pretty much a basic transportation guy when it comes to vehicles and like our 2000 ford station wagon just as much as i do our $27,105 msrp ford. power steering, power brakes, air conditioning, an automatic transmission and i am happy. heck, the ford even has crank windows. the bells and whistles trend has far exceeded its usefulness as far as i'm concerned and the sync idea is nothing more than a gimmick that's likely to go on the fritz in very short order, imho. call me old school, but cars were made for commuting not computing.
i'm very impressed with that video showing the capabilities of sync. of course, i'm 26 years old, and am a huge technology fan. i don't spend that much time in a car, so most of my technology is related to other things (example, my car is pretty spartan; but i have gps tracking and navigation in my new wristwatch (garmin forerunner 305), so i can use it anywhere, especially running and biking). what really intruiges me about sync is that it will be upgradeable with new software packages in the future. compared to other options available in cars today, that makes it much more appealing. if you are planning on keeping the car for a while, it is nice to know that your high-tech features won't be out of date in a year or two. a few years is a long time in the technology world, and something brand new may come onto the market that appeals to you. all you'll have to do is download the latest patch, and whatever hot new high-tech gadget you want in 5 years will likely be able to "sync" with your car. pretty cool.
call me old school, but cars were made for commuting not computing. i guess i'm old school too. my honda has a six cd changer, but 99.9% of the time i'm listening to my favorite local radio station (walton & johnson in the morning and classic rock all day). my nieces a nefews have all these gadgets, and seems to me they are just toys. the play with them, and play with them, but never really just listen to the music. they spend way more time downloading music than they do listening to it :confuse:. i don't see the need for it.
"i'm 26 years old, and am a huge technology fan." i'm a tech fan too, but with cars i believe the technology should go into making the car better to drive. yes, i love a good stereo, i'd like to be able to plug in an mp3 flash drive. but i wouldn't make a purchase decision on a cars entertainment center or other gadgets.
i'm all for gadgets if it helps keeps my loved ones and i safe. so i'm all for the latest safety wizardry such as esc, abs with brake assist, active head restraints, side curtains, etc. i've also become accustomed to certain creature comforts over the years; power windows, locks, mirrors, and remote locking are something i won't do without on a 4-door car. and i'm a real fan of flexible driving positions via seat adjustments (love those dual height adjusters or power ones, and telescopic wheels). little things that improve passenger toyota are nice, too: center armrests, padded armrests (amazing how even some cars in this class fall down there), lighted vanity mirrors, lots of storage pockets, lots of foot room under the front seats, etc. other than that, the rest is gravy. don't need audio controls on the wheel (they're not bad, but i really can do without them). don't need nav. don't need bluetooth (although i can appreciate it). really don't need a 500 petabyte audio system with built-in data warehouse. don't need a computer that is too smart for its own good (ala idrive). don't need dvd screens (i can always bring along my $80 dvd player if we're on a long trip). don't need led lights all over the place, or an auto climate control, or push-button starter. hard to bellieve my first car, the mid-sized '66 dodge coronet, had no carpet, no radio, no a/c, no power anything (except brakes i think), and a 3-speed automatic. but we got by. really easy to work on that slant 6 engine, though--lots of room in the engnie bay!
your thoughts are along the same thoughts as mine. i don't call power windows, seats, or door locks gadgets though. most cars except for the cheapest of the cheap come with them anyway. climate control makes life easier in the cabin, don't need dual controls though. don't even need cruise. i like the audio controls on the steering wheel, aids in the prevention of distraction from fiddling with the radio. don't believe in xm/sirius or nav. vz nav is way cheaper and can be used on foot or bicycle. i'll take leather although leatherette is fine. in this segment, i would want a decent car for family transportation, some amount of creature comforts, efficient, yet lively engine. imo, when one moves up to ls460 or 750 class it comes with the gadgets. drove the 750 and it comes with a dizzying array of gadgets, maybe too many. but when you spend $90k for a car that's what you expect and that's what you get.
&#147;i am struggling with the trend to make everything bigger. the honda is about the same size as my old honda&#148; what i find troublesome, except for the honda and toyota, mileage for growing subcompacts has skidded down from early 1990s ratings of 31/37 in many cases to 24/32. this is camcord/hyundai/kia 4-cylinder mileage territory. subcompacts that used to weigh 2100&#150;2300# now are now nudging 3000#. the latest volkswagen has gone past it now (3230 mt) and is almost the same tonnage as an i4 hyundai (3253 mt). the new volkswagen with a 5-cylinder is rated @22/30 . i have read a test where drivers only averaged 19 mpg, another just over 25. at around $3 a gallon and nearly 20k purchase price, what kind of economy car is that? i am aware that these cars have more &#145;stuff&#146; on them, and didn&#146;t accelerate so well, but how about a 2600# subcompact? the 2005 (i think) remake of the chevrolet added about 3 mpg. that will be lost in the 2008 conversion to the longer-wheelbase chassis. the new revised mileage ratings will send it down further. another thing: does everybody have to go from 0-60 in 7 seconds or less? 8 seconds is quite adequate for a lot of people, i think. &#147;the honda is bigger than the 80s crown vics.&#148; on this point, i think you are confused. the ltd began in 1965. the incarnation you referred to started in 1979 as the galaxie/ltd. it was around 214" overall length. i don&#146;t know of any honda that big. ford did bring out a fairmount-based vehicle called the ltd in the early 1980s, as a precursor to the ford. this may be what you are thinking of. i think the crown victoria label was lifted from a fancy 1950s fairlane to differentiate from its lesser stablemate.
i'm with you when it comes to my commuter car. i picked up a low end nissan 2.5s with no other options, but abs. didn't want or need to all the gadgets on the higher trims. however, you listed out exactly what you want and need, but you still purchased the 'sel' trim? you could of picked up a base 's' model or the 'se' trim if you really needed awd and/or a v6, which according to you, not really needed from your list of must haves. fwd cars will get better mpg vs. their awd counterparts. ford offers low end trims w/o all the toys like every other brand, yet you choose the top of the line trim. your list of priorities and complaints would of made the ford i-4s, your "dream" car, yet you chose the top of the line v6 (your mpg complaint), awd (your mpg complaint), and the sel trim (your too many gadgets complaint). i'm not following your logic.
your list of priorities and complaints would of made the ford i-4s, your "dream" car, yet you chose the top of the line v6 (your mpg complaint), awd (your mpg complaint), and the sel trim (your too many gadgets complaint). i'm not following your logic. truth is we made an illogical buying decision which i now regret. the wife was a critical factor: wanted a moon roof. i wanted leather seating. the six-disc, six-speaker cd/radio seemed nice (but we only use the radio). a power driver's seat is handy when you have two drivers. we didn't order the car; it was on the lot. in retrospect, an s with an i4 automatic would have been just fine. i have buyer's remorse. the mileage is horrific and we seldom use, or appreciate, all of the bells and whistles. i thought we "needed" a v6 because i4s are traditionally anemic. that, too, was a mistake. the awd is totally uncalled for in our climate. again, the car came that way. we did not make a wise decision, but the car is a fine automobile which has many nice features and nary a squeak or rattle one after eight months and 4,204 miles.
we did not make a wise decision, but the car is a fine automobile which has many nice features and nary a squeak or rattle one after eight months and 4,204 miles. and your ford is a daily driver too right? that's about 10 miles each way per trip? no wonder your gas mileage is so bad...your car is barely warming up before you've arrived. add to this situation you're doing honda driving with some stop and go, and no wonder your mileage is so dismal. i have a similar engine as you with lots of stop and go on my commute in all honda driving, but with a longer overall drive and i'm getting 19 mpg even when i'm "stretching out the car's legs" pretty frequently.
i'm a tech fan too, but with cars i believe the technology should go into making the car better to drive. yes, i love a good stereo, i'd like to be able to plug in an mp3 flash drive. but i wouldn't make a purchase decision on a cars entertainment center or other gadgets. but when you're at the point in your buying making process where you've narrowed down your short list to a few vehicles, these extras can make a difference. of course if you save a lot of money buying one of those vehicles, the money you save can often buy those options that the car you choose didn't come with from the factory... just like the savings on my car over the next car on my list (6spd honda honda) bought my plasma tv, a dslr, my gps/mp3 player, an mp3 input device that i installed in my center console and paid for my car insurance for a year and a half :p
i think looks can end up being a deciding factor, because the other differences are minor. for instance i could have been comfortable driving an honda or a mazda, but one of the main reasons i bought the 6 is because i think it looks better. it is nice that it looks so good while i am walking to it, because it takes me a long time to get to my car...weighed down, as i am, with a much heavier wallet than i would have had i bought an honda i agree completely... although the main reasons i bought this car did not involve how the car looked, i still get a certain amount of satisfaction when a stranger walks by and tells me that i have a nice looking car or something to that effect. and it happens pretty frequently too. i think it's great that every time i walk up to my car to go for a drive i'm thinking, "that's a good looking car. glad it's mine!!"
"but when you're at the point in your buying making process where you've narrowed down your short list to a few vehicles, these extras can make a difference." i see what you are getting to, but i don't buy cars like that. i figure out what car i want, then what options i want or don't. if it came push to shove, i certainly wouldn't get the car i wanted if it had more bells and whistles, but i don't go looking for cars with the most gadgets.
call me old school, but cars were made for commuting not computing there's deffinitly an age component to it. by the same token, i'd be willing to be you also wouldn't plunk down $600 for an iphone, and niether would i. but those gizmo's and gadgets can separate one car from the other, and for the buyer who isn't really concerned with price, or rather value, it can make the difference in what they buy. the various fan boys of each model can say what they want, most of the cars in this segment are nearly identical performance, handling and reliability wise. sure, an enthusiast will notice the subtle differences, but the majority of drivers, in bumper to bumper traffic, never will. to me, honda is deffinitly making a bad call if they ignore the tech stuff. thats the way the market is going, and what the younger buyers will demand. they, along with toyota, will be fine for the next 20-30 years, but the 20 somethings out there now will begin to view the honda and toyota as "grandpa's car" and look for cars with the gadgets and stuff they want. the asian car companies got where they are today in no small part by always innovating and adding value to their vehicles. i think if they loose that sense of giving you more than you asked for, and stuff not found on other cars, in 20 years we may be discussing what toyota and honda have to do to get back on top of the market.
"adding value to their vehicles" exactly and that is the essense of the conversation. what is value to one is not value to another. in this sense i take it to mean value is: relative worth, merit, or importance . some people place value on gadgets, some don't. some people place value on the drive and performance, some don't.
i think we are in agreement...most of the decisions i will make about a car purchase is about how the car drives and how it fits my needs/wants (ie bodystyle). the rest is only an issue if all else is mostly equal. i find it interesting that nissan has decided their signature/headline feature on the new nissan is a push-start button... their marketing must have found that most people are not like us.
some people place value on gadgets, some don't i never disputed that. what i'm saying is, in the not so distant future, the majority of car buyers will place a lot of value on gadgets. car manufactures ignore that at their own perril. to someone over 30, it doesn't mean much. to the kids out there learning how to drive right now, not having some of those "gadgets" will seem as alien to them as a car not having ac does to us older drivers. their and others desire for tech is already showing up. take the nissan, since i'm posting and reading through that forum, the fully loaded, all the bells and whisles, version of the sedan and coupe are the hardest to find. despite the fact all the gadgets can push the price up over 30k. i don't fault honda, toyota, or any other manufacturer for going after the 40+ buyers, they are the largest demographic buying midsize sedans. but, if they don't cater enough to the younger drivers (their future customers) i think its going to cost them down the road.
the nissan has a cvt which i bet is limiting the sales. i for one was not impressed with cvt. and that emergency foot operated brake, is in a very strange place. looks to me to be odd, and i wonder if the leg hits it in an accident. no, i want the emergency brake near my right hand, thank you. the push to start / stop, i guess is ok. so what does the key or whatever it is called now that it is startrek transmitter age device, cost if it should break or become lost? i miss the days of the . 97 keys loren
so with these new nissan, if you want to turn off the engine, and just listen to the radio (or whatever) how does that work. does the button turn everything off, or just the engine?
limiting the sales? have you looked at the numbers for it? sales of the 07 nissan are more than 20% over last years. it (+ the nissan) is the reason nissan was just about the only auto company to post a sales gain for july.
if you push the button once, the car shuts off, no different that removing a conventional key. if (while running) you push it twice in sucession, the car cuts off, but everything else stays on. no pause in the radio, or anything. the motor just stops. and before you ask, no, the car will not shut off if you push the button while it is moving. nothing happens unless you hold it in for about 5 seconds or so.
the cvt is nothing less than amazing. can cruis at 75 mph and only 2200 rpm. give it about 1/2 throttle, and it will instantly, smothly, without any kind of jerk, jump to about 5000-5500 rpm and get you to whatever speed you want in a very short time. deffinitly takes some getting used too, especialy the car getting used to you (it will learn your driving style and behave accordingly) but once you get used to it, and it gets used to you; it's hard to imagine driving anything else.
i don't see how bluetooth connectivity and support for mp3 player in any way challenges the business model for onstar at this point. they serve different functions. as far as i can tell, it doesn't do anything onstar does. voice recognition. both have it and it is the most used feature of onstar i'd wager. how often do you have to call for an emergency and how often do you talk on the phone or change the radio station/volume? the similarities are there.
imo there are already too many gadgets to take the driver's mind off what he/she should be concentrating on, driving. have you sat in a new acura suv yet? tiny buttons everywere and they are all the same shape, size, and color. all of them are for the overabundance of gadgets everyone desires. i'm with you though. my ford is all about the drive and i am very seldom distracted by any gadgets. it doesn't even have steering wheel mounted audio controls. albeit because of the retro design.
have you sat in a new acura suv yet? tiny buttons everywere and they are all the same shape, size, and color. all of them are for the overabundance of gadgets everyone desires. not everyone. the only reason i would think about buying an acura tl is either for the performance or the looks. the performance is not that much better than an honda v6, and i'm not all that concerned with looks. for these reasons i don't have an acura, and don't plan on buying one. it's just extra money for things i don't want. the gadget junkies can buy the acura or tl. leave the honda simple, i say.
i see alot has happened since my "post #20" about 4007 messages ago... oh i agree! i think its ok to update the honda with some new gadgets that the toyota and nissan have like keyless go on the ex models. the big red button from the s2000 is a start but maybe something more contemporary would work well here. imo, the acura should be refreshed and do a 6 year cycle. bring it out about the same time as the next audi. the current audi is a refresh. the tl... rwd. i finally made up my mind! rwd!! yeah, not going to happen... i say make another acura model. let the tl be a gs competitor but being a tad more sporty than luxurious like the gs and the new model [lets say xl] to be like the es. the rl just needs to retire or go on hiatus. with all this money honda and acura are making with all this sales gains, they should really put some into a 4th platform and v8 engine. seriously, other than being lost in rl, where is this money going? i rarely see honda commercials! the only1 i know features mr. opportunity and thats 1 a year. imo, its time for acura to do like their slogan... advance!! -cj
ok. i personally like the jerk, or kick when you get a shift, over say the electric cart feel. do see how it could be efficient. so sales are up? i see some around here in the new model, but had no idea they are selling more. was 2006 model year really slow for sales? it is good that they have some style, and are not bland looking. nissan is pretty sharp. loren
actually, i prefer a stick too, (its what my other 2 cars have) but that doesn't make the cvt any less amazing. to me, there's just something about having almost complete control over the transmission. but thats comparing to a stick, to compare it to an auto, to me, it isn't even close. when i drive my nissan, the difference is so profound its kinda hard to describe. i guess my only preference for the stick is more or less feel over function. some cvt's have a "go cart" feel to them, but not the xtronic. its usually reffered to a a "rubberband" feel, and i've heard some nissan owners complain of that. as for the sales, 06 was probably off from 05, but wasn't terrible. the nissan has always been a top 5 car since the redesign back in 02 that brought it into the midsize family. the 07 redesign finnaly made it capable of competing with the honda and toyota. before 07, it lacked the interior, and build quality to stand toe to toe.
the wife was a critical factor lol. i fully understand urnews. i've had the same issue with past car purchases. i figured that was part of it, but didn't want to put words in your mouth. what can you do, gotta keep the wife happy.
the cvt on the nissan is absolutely amazing. that was one of the selling points for me. it is unbelievely smooth and efficient. i'm averaging 24 mpg all honda w/ only 600 miles so far and the i4 matched with cvt is powerful and butter smooth. the start button is a cool feature, but 5 weeks into my ownership. the novelty has worn off a bit. that said, as simple as taking your keys out of your pocket and turning the ignition. it's been nice not messing with the keys. but i do worry at times about what would happen if the intellikey decides to de program itself and i can't start the car since there is no slot for the physical key. nissan decided to provide a slot for the intellikey if the battery dies in the fob. there is an actual key inside the fob you slide out to use to unlock the doors and then slide the fob into the slot and start the car. however, if the intellikey just stopped working, you're sol until your wife/hubby can swing by with the spare. you'd think the engineers would have provided a way to use the key to start the car if needed. i think this will keep many people away from a great car otherwise.
the nissan has a cvt which i bet is limiting the sales. i for one was not impressed with cvt. i don't think this is the case, i think people tend to like it better because of the smoothness and the ability to always stay in its powerband or efficiency band. of all the cvts, i think nissan has the best implementation. i am not in the market as i prefer a manual transmission, but when i test drove the nissan they only had a cvt. the push to start / stop, i guess is ok. so what does the key or whatever it is called now that it is startrek transmitter age device, cost if it should break or become lost? i miss the days of the .97 keys i think the value goes up the first time you run up to the car in the pouring rain with your arms full and don't have to fumble for your keys to load it or drive away. i'm pretty frugal but that was one of the features i really liked about the mil's toyota.
it probably runs about $100-150 per key. thats what a neighbor of mine that used to work as a tec for toyota told me they charged to replace and reprogram fob's. to me the real downside of it is, if you want a third key, you can't just get another one programed, you have to get 3 new keys.
but i do worry at times about what would happen if the intellikey decides to de program itself and i can't start the car since there is no slot for the physical key. thats pretty unlikely. fobs arn't new, they've been around in luxury cars for awhile now. you just have to be a little carefull with it. keep it away from magnets, microwaves, water.......the standard list for most things electronic. and of course, untill the new fobs are issued, your cell phone. :p
it probably runs about $100-150 per key. thats what a neighbor of mine that used to work as a tec for toyota told me they charged to replace and reprogram fob's. to me the real downside of it is, if you want a third key, you can't just get another one programed, you have to get 3 new keys. with the honda he told me i had to bring all the existing keys in addition to what ever new ones i was adding as they all had to get programmed at once, but they they would all work.
that sounds right, i can't remember if he told me they were reprogamable or not, and that was toyota. i do remember him telling me it was a real pain in the [non-permissible content removed] though. had to go through a lot of steps that had to be done exactly right, in an exact order to do it. but again, that could just be a toyota thing.
i remember reading on this forum that several people had mentioned that they thought the interior of the mazda was a bit tight compared to the other cars in this category. personally, i've had several 6 footers in the back without issue and have rode in the back myself without having a feeling of claustrophobia but since so many people were saying it, i either took them at their word or didn't really care since i had never had a problem with the interior dimensions of the mazda. on occasion these comments were coming from honda proponents so i thought i'd take a peak at this allegation. here's what i found (according to honda and mazda official websites): headroom (in., front / rear): honda (ex w/sunroof) - 38.3 / 36.8. mazda honda(w/sunroof) - 38.0 / 36.7. legroom (in., front / rear): honda - 42.6 / 36.8. mazda honda - 42.3 / 36.5. hiproom (in., front / rear): honda - 54.6 / 53.5. mazda honda - 54.7 / 54.1. shoulder room (in., front / rear): honda - 56.9 / 56.1. mazda honda - 56.1 / 54.9 cargo volume (cu. ft.): honda - 14.0. mazda honda - 22.1 (58.7 with rear seats folded down). the strange thing is, i never hear that the honda is cramped or small, but i hear that alot when the 6 is described.... perhaps people are using overall interior space to come up with their conclusions, but if that volume includes area where people don't reside or use (like under the windshield above the dash), who cares? i guess this confirms what i was thinking before, the mazda has enough room for most people to be comfortable and is competitive for this class.
why are you comparing a hatchback with a sedan? how about apples to apples? i'd avoid a hatchback because of the lessened structural rigidity (more rattles) since i will keep a car a long time.
it's how the space is used. somehow it's used more effectively in an honda. (imo)
nissan decided to provide a slot for the intellikey if the battery dies in the fob... however, if the intellikey just stopped working, you're sol until your wife/hubby can swing by with the spare. not from what i understand. if the "key" does have a malfunction, the car can sense it, and flashes a warning on the trip computer. this allows you to still run the car with the fob in the slot to the left of the steering wheel. this is from what i understand from the owners manual.
"i see what you are getting to, but i don't buy cars like that. i figure out what car i want, then what options i want or don't. if it came push to shove, i certainly wouldn't get the car i wanted if it had more bells and whistles, but i don't go looking for cars with the most gadgets." so unexciting. i can see you in the dealership waiting 5 months for your custom built driving appliance. i started to buy the stripped model (mazda 3i) but drove in a loaded s with every option when all was said and done. what did it? electroluminescent (sp?) gauges and two-tone seats. and the ford sync is a $395 option. pay it and have fun.
i used to think the mazda was tight in back, but recently i sat in a car with the power driver's seat, and when i adjusted it so it was fairly high up (for good thigh support), i was also able to move it prety far forward and be comfortable. (i'm 5'10".) at that setting, there was plenty of room in the back seat for me, and there was good foot room since the front seat was so high. so i think numbers can be misleading wrt actual stretch-out room in back. a lot depends on the seat geometry, amount of toe space, etc. the honda also has pretty good rear leg room, but feels claustrophobic to me (especially with the black interior) compared to some other cars in this class such as toyota, kia, and hyundai.
why are you comparing a hatchback with a sedan? it doesn't change much, here is sedan to sedan comparison: headroom (in., front / rear): honda (ex w/sunroof) - 38.3 / 36.8. mazda sedan(w/sunroof) - 38.0 / 37.1. legroom (in., front / rear): honda - 42.6 / 36.8. mazda sedan - 42.3 / 36.5. hiproom (in., front / rear): honda - 54.6 / 53.5. mazda sedan - 54.7 / 54.1. shoulder room (in., front / rear): honda - 56.9 / 56.1. mazda sedan - 55.9 / 55.2 cargo volume (cu. ft.): honda - 14.0. mazda sedan - 15.2 also if you compare independent measurements by cr, there is not much difference either.
"so unexciting" yep and that's me. if i'm dumping $20k - $45k large on something, i want what i want and want how i want it.
we're the same in this area. i'm the same way. if i went to buy a car and had a choice between all theoptions i'd want on a silver car or most the options i want on the color i'd want, i'd rather give the dealer my information (and risk millons of calls) and order the car precisely how i'd want it. i hate silver cars. i like green(volkswagen, bmw, acura, honda green. not saab green or lime/neon green) or browns. for some reason, when i build a car on the manufacturers website, i never see it at dealers. but! other people seem to be driving it around! -cj
lol. i fully understand urnews. i've had the same issue with past car purchases. i figured that was part of it, but didn't want to put words in your mouth. what can you do, gotta keep the wife happy. actually, she had her heart set on a new ford, but that was just too impractical for our present circumstances. we traded in a 2000 mazda miata mazda convertible with only 7,500 miles on it. the problem with gadgets, bell and whistles, is when they cease to function properly and have to be fixed. it's often very expensive to fix a gadget. the ford, after eight months and 4,200 miles, has been perfect in that regard but who knows what the future will bring? our lone complaint is poor gas mileage, but even our 2000 ford ford station wagon with a 2.0-liter i4 and automatic transmission only gets 18-20 mpg driving the same route so i guess the ford's 14.8 mpg isn't all that bad considering it is a 3,300-pound mid-size sedan with a v6 and awd. still, i think fomoco would be better served if it devoted more resources toward better fuel economy rather than gadgets like sync
the ford, after eight months and 4,200 miles, has been perfect in that regard but who knows what the future will bring? 525 miles a month? i hope you have no issues. try 525+ miles a week in your car and see where you stand down the road. not picking on you, but my ford experiences say high miles and ford don't mix.
i found an artist rendering of the new mazda 6. i guess we'll have to see. http://www.worldcarfans.com/6070730.001/new-mazda-latest-artists-renderings
try 525+ miles a week in your car and see where you stand down the road. not picking on you, but my ford experiences say high miles and ford don't mix. 2 escorts, a contour and a ford have done fine. maybe you just got badeggs.
"not picking on you, but my ford experiences say high miles and ford don't mix." lol, my ford experiences say low miles and ford don't mix. (former 2004 ford, and to some degree our present 2004 ford).
so, the 6 has more hiproom, but less shoulder room and legroom. the honda feels more "airy" and roomy to me, but its something intangible that i can't really back up, so i won't try to.
the honda's back seat is not the roomiest in this segment, that's for sure. in front however it is as comfortable as it gets. i love the driver's seat. since the only one riding in back is my son, it's not a problem. especially since he can sit behind my wife (5'3") and have plenty of room. i am 6'0" so i have the seat all the way back.
not from what i understand. if the "key" does have a malfunction, the car can sense it, and flashes a warning on the trip computer. this allows you to still run the car with the fob in the slot to the left of the steering wheel. this is from what i understand from the owners manual. so you use the actual key to unlock the door. slide the fob into the slot near the steering wheel and the fob will start the car even though the intellikey craps out. interesting, guess it's time to crack open the owner's manual. i hope i never have the opportunity to find out.
the honda's back seat is not the roomiest in this segment, that's for sure. i don't think it was optimized for people; it is fantastic for child restraints. each position does an excellent job of holding a child/infant seat using the latch system. the bench is flat and does a great job of holding the infant seat in the correct position and it's very easy to get the seat in there good and tight. i find the backseat of the subaru more comfortable for people (2 medium sized adults is the limit, but my family runs small), but because of the seat belt arrangement it is difficult to use a rearward facing infant seat in the center position. because of the door shape, it is more difficult to load the babyseat into the cradle with the subie than the honda.
why are you comparing a hatchback with a sedan? mostly because i have one, and that was the car type i was looking at on mazda's website before i began comparing the honda to the 6. doesn't really matter anyway... the sedan and hatchback have similar dimensions except for the storage capacity. i'd avoid a hatchback because of the lessened structural rigidity (more rattles) since i will keep a car a long time. my honda honda hatchback held up pretty well as did my subaru wagon, so i headed into the mazda hatchback with a fair amount of confidence that they would be pretty solid. having that much more useable space with these two body types in my previous cars made this a pretty important feature that i wanted to have. i just am annoyed that sedans don't use their space as effectively as hatchbacks or wagons. and if you don't want a car that has less structural rigidity, the mazda feels more solid than the honda even in hatchback form... although the honda has a very solid feel, the mazda felt like it handles the twisties with a bit more composure.
the back seat of the honda is very comfortable for two people, but not three, unless they are small kids. i rode in back a few times, and the seat is nice. there is just not enough hip/shoulder room for three adults.
i'd avoid a hatchback because of the lessened structural rigidity (more rattles) since i will keep a car a long time. given the last 2 civics and the honda in my life, if i was that afraid of rattles i would've avoided honda altogether. i haven't had an issue with rattles in the subie wagon, or the toyota. the new honda is so softly sprung i don't expect it to rattle ever (although we might have to do something about that spring rate ).
the back seat of the subaru subaru is more comfortable for two adults than the honda's back seat? not in my experience. i found plenty of leg room in the honda. the legacys i've sat in were more cramped than some compact cars in back. although i like several things about the subaru, including its awd, i had to strike it off my list right there.
i'm wondering what's wrong with your honda; it is firmer than most of its competitors (except for mazda 6 and ford ford). in fact, my 06 honda is firmer than my '96 or my grandmother's '02. the only two honda we've ever had (out of the last 8 i remember) that rattled at all were my dad's 2003 honda and our 2000 honda. my 1996 is still relatively tight and rattle free after 174,000 miles. my grandmother's is as well, and she has 89,000 miles on her car.
the back seat of the honda is very comfortable for two people, but not three, unless they are small kids. i rode in back a few times, and the seat is nice. there is just not enough hip/shoulder room for three adults. size and toyota are kind of separate issues though. the size seems fine, the fact that is so flat makes it less comfortable for people but great for child seats. i can think of more comfortable cars, if not in the same class. i think the g35 sedan rear seats (and the infiniti seats) are the most comfortable ones my butt has has the privilege to grace.
after being in the back seat of test drives back to back, and being 6' 200lbs, i personally thought the nissan felt much better. i had my wife's grandmother that we had to talk into even trying anything but an honda (stubborn!) and she did (tried to get a door that was easie for her to open and not kick it). i can say she is now driving an 07 sl nissan and describes it as heavenly. this is after a 99 and 03 honda. this weekend in the back of the nissan we had myself, my father in law 6'4 250 and in the middle a 4'11 160lb grandma. the roofline was a little short for my father in law though.
i'm wondering what's wrong with your honda; it is firmer than most of its competitors (except for mazda 6 and ford ford). in fact, my 06 honda is firmer than my '96 or my grandmother's '02. the only two honda we've ever had (out of the last 8 i remember) that rattled at all were my dad's 2003 honda and our 2000 honda. my 1996 is still relatively tight and rattle free after 174,000 miles. my grandmother's is as well, and she has 89,000 miles on her car. the '93 & 95 civics and the '93 honda all are virtual symphonies on the highway, especially when the weather turns cool. the speedometers squeaked, the dash rattles, the back window creaks on the civics, the front window squeaks on the honda. clunks don't count, that just means something is broken, these are squeaks and rattles. whats even weirder is that these cars spent most of their lives in ca, where the roads are relatively smooth, at least compared to mi.
the back seat of the subaru subaru is more comfortable for two adults than the honda's back seat? not in my experience. i found plenty of leg room in the honda. the legacys i've sat in were more cramped than some compact cars in back. although i like several things about the subaru, including its awd, i had to strike it off my list right there. i can't think of the last time i had to transport someone over about 5'10", and he had plenty of legroom, if not hip-room as compromised by the infant seat. i guess for our heights, i find the back seat very comfortable, although like i said, not as much as the g35.
i agree with you. my experience with ford has been a lot better than my luck with honda. i've had 4 escorts, a german ford, and 2 jaguars. all have been very good. regards: oldcem
german ford oktoberfest meets cinco de mayo?
the honda feels more "airy" and roomy to me, but its something intangible that i can't really back up, so i won't try to. well, since epa says honda has 103 cubic feet of passenger volume vs. 96 for mazda, there must be a little extra space here and there in the honda. so what you say makes sense. i think the way some talk about the mazda being "cramped" overstates the differences, however.
i'm not complaining about my luck with honda either, they were inexpensive and reasonably durable. the ford were also. both where reasonably cheap to repair. the only huge pos we had was a reliant and that was so long ago i can't be mad about it, the whole company has changed hands 3x since then. that and they redeemed themselves with the grand voyager that ran great and lasted a long long time. honestly, everyone is nit-picking details, its very hard to make a bad choice in this segment in aggregate, although some choices are better for some people than others.
there's an old expression....perception is reality. that 7 cubic feet might make a difference to some, a non-issue for others.
so you use the actual key to unlock the door. slide the fob into the slot near the steering wheel and the fob will start the car even though the intellikey craps out. that's how i understand it. i hope i never have the opportunity to find out. you and me both!
from my understanding, its not the ikey that starts the car, per se. the sensors in the car scan for it, or rather the signal it puts out. if the car can not pick up that signal, it won't enable the starter. what the slot does, is puts the ikey extremly close a sensor (not sure if its a different one) so its easier to detect the fob. now i'm not a 100% sure of this next part, but i've read that the sensor behind the slot send out a signal that actually has a very, very, very small current to it that can power the ikey just enough to send out its signal. i suppose you could test that by removing the battery from you ikey, putting it the slot, then trying to start your car.
what about security with nissan's system, what do you do when some hacker invents a key that can detect your "code signal" 6 months from now rendering your keyless start useless or vulnerable to attack?
very doubtfull. the equipment to do so is proprietary to nissan. even their technicians have trouble pulling that info. and in order to do so, they'd need the key. and if you have the key, why would you need to figure out the signal coming from the key. not that it would be impossible, but i doubt somebody with the technical prowless to do so would be targeting nissan nissan's.
if that were the case it seems like today's key fobs would have been cracked years ago and people would be walking around mall parking lots stealing at will.
the same would be true of garage door openers/homelink systems too, and you don't hear of that happening either.
the honda used to be stolen more than most other cars. i wonder how many 7th gen honda (with the immobilizer system) have been stolen? if any.
last i heard, the cadillac is now at the top of the most stolen list.
it's already been done. i heard on the news, your car could be gone in 60 seconds, by a thief with a laptop and radio receiver.
not that this is related to midsize cars really, but still an interesting article on how anti-theft systems in cars can be overcome... and how insurance companies sometimes won't believe that these systems are defeatable and then won't pay for your stolen car!!! link pinch my ride!
don't know about that. this thihg was one of my favorite cars of all time. i equipped it with a 4 tube header, pacesetter low restriction exhaust, removed all the emission controlls, retuned the weber duece, and fitted it with a high performace clutch. the little ford 1.6 would scream. regards: oldcem
i agree with you - except for chrysler. they seem to be trailing the pack on quality control again. regards: oldcem
last i heard, the cadillac is now at the top of the most stolen list. those lists can be misleading. honda and toyota are always near the top because there are so many of them out there.
this article tells us more about the system and what it is capable in the future. it expands on where it can and cannot compete with onstar, navigation systems, and sattelite radio.
mule pics of a new '09 grille and the hybrid mule. you might recall the renderings? ford had them taken down where they could because they are, according to some ford sources on other forums, "spot on" renderings of the '09 production model. doesn't confirm anything yet but very interesting to say the least. note that the covered grille in the mule pics closely mirrors that of the rendering's grille.
i bought the mazda over the ford partly for it's better (to me) looks. after seeing some supposed pictures the new mazda recently and now this future ford, i think i'd be leaning toward the ford over the 6 in the future.
if these pics are correct, the ford is the best looking mid-size sedan this side of the mondeo.
i think if those pics are correct then ford has taken the 3 bar grill theme a little bit too far. the current ford's 3 bar grill is perfect and best looking among all other ford production. so the original is the best, what a surprise...
i think if those pics are correct then ford has taken the 3 bar grill theme a little bit too far. the current ford's 3 bar grill is perfect and best looking among all other ford production. so the original is the best, what a surprise... couldn't agree more. well said.
well as an anti-chromite, i find the new grill less offensive. maybe because it doesn't have the extra 2 bars of chome lower down??? or maybe i am overlooking the chrome because the headlights and tailights are less offensive (to me) in the rendering of the '09 vs. the current version. also this may move the ford ahead of the mazda for me because, if the images of the mazda are accurate, it looks they are going to the (hated by me) chrome around the side windows, while ford just has the less offensive line of chrome at the base of the windows. anyway, i'd prefer it with the optional "black chrome" grill that i assume will continue to be available on the next version...but i'd want them to make that version of the grill a stand alone option or let me buy it as a part and switch it. glad i got my mazda with chrome-free exterior (aside from the mazda symbol) and woodless interior while that is still an option.
glad i got my mazda with chrome-free exterior (aside from the mazda symbol) and woodless interior while that is still an option. the wife and i both dislike plood (plastic wood) and really like the piano black option in our 2007 awd sel ford. real wood might be ok, but the plastic variety is just plain tacky.
the wife and i both dislike plood (plastic wood) and really like the piano black option in our 2007 awd sel ford. real wood might be ok, but the plastic variety is just plain tacky. my folks had an 80s k-car wagon with the contact paper fake wood paneling on the sides. that, and the "woody" caravan that followed, ruined wood in the eyes of my generation.
the wife and i both dislike plood (plastic wood) and really like the piano black option in our 2007 awd sel ford. real wood might be ok, but the plastic variety is just plain tacky. couldn't agree with you more. i almost didn't buy my hyundai because of the plood interior. but then i found they had another interior choice. while shopping, i saw an acura tl (1999-2003 model). it too had plood trim. however, there were kits that you could buy to cover the plood with a brushed metal look or other looks. i think there were also kits that you could buy to add more plood to the interior. i guess there are still many who associate "wood" with quality.
ok, i don't get it. makes no difference if it looks like wood, brushed metal, a piano, or whatever. it's still all plastic! at least the wood look requires some pattern to the design. as long as it doesn't peel off, it's all a matter of taste, one style is not cheaper than the other. :confuse:
unless you get an audi, where they actually do use some real metal/aluminum interior trim pieces and parts.
my only complaint is that seems to take quite a while for a voice command to do its thing compared to just pushing a button. that will probably improve with upgrades eventually though. love those gadgets!
true, but then you get to pay audi prices.
i agree it is a matter of taste. for me it is the look, not the material. i don't like wood (fake or real) interior bits in my car.
i'm thinking you folks would be interested in helping out over here: thejoeyo, "the best used sedans" #1, 16 aug 2007 4:35 pm .
my only complaint is that seems to take quite a while for a voice command to do its thing compared to just pushing a button. that will probably improve with upgrades eventually though. love those gadgets! the sync site has a video demo and the system doesn't seem slow to me. i've never used an in-car voice activated system so i have nothing to compare it to however.
all of you probably are sick of my raving about the hauling capacity of hatchbacks, but every time i'm able to get something into my mazda hatchback that would not fit into a sedan i am that much happier that i made the choice i did. i've always been satisfied with my car, but more so when i overheard some people walking by my car saying some nice things about it as i was waiting for my queen sized bed frame with a high backrest to get pulled from their full service area. while i was waiting, i see many people in sedans trying to figure out how to get their purchases into their cars... several drove off with boxes precariously hanging out of their trunk since their packages would not fit through the cabin pass through. others had to take their furniture out of the protective boxes to get them to fit in their cars. finally after around 30 minutes of waiting, i saw my package # show up on the ikea screen saying that my purchase was ready to pick up and be loaded. as has happened before, the person helping me load laughed as i pointed out my car and said, "you're going to put this in that?!" when we were able to get it to fit without any problems, the guy said, "very cool! nice car! what is it?" shopping there left me a couple hundred dollars poorer, but having a car that looks nice, that drives great and can hold things that other midsize sedans could never hold is priceless.
not at all tired of hearing about your enthusiasm for a mazda hatchback. i've owned two hatchbacks; it was wonderful how much stuff could be hauled in them. the only drawback i've noticed is that they lack some potential cross-bracing in the rear, giving up some body stiffness.
all of you probably are sick of my raving about the hauling capacity of hatchbacks naw, what gave you that idea? like to see you get a fridge, or sofa in there. i have a truck for hauling things. something like a lawnmower/generator, i don't want inside the car with me.
wonder if anyone has tried fitting a miata in there. i miss my little toy some days, and may have to buy another one. the only two problems with hatchbacks are the safety and noise issues. generally a bit more noise, and there is no way to really secure the loads, in most cases. in my pt, i did have a box with heavy rubber straps tied to those little metal rings, but really nothing which would hold up totally in a wreck. it is one of those 90% of the time, i would prefer a car with a trunk. i am back with a car with a trunk. for those wanting a hatchback, do we have a count on those going to test drive the astra, once it hits our shores? loren
feel the same way about my chevrolet maxx. sadly the maxx and 6 station wagon will be no more leaving just the 6 hatch in the mid-sized field.
there is also still a volkswagen wagon.
also the hyundai touring hatch/wagon coming early next year. (the hyundai is a mid-sizer by interior volume.)
fomoco is eliminating its ford hatchbacks and station wagons in the 2008 lineup. hopefully, the hatchbacks will continue in the mazda lineup.
is the 2008 ford getting up-sized to fit into the mid-sized sedan class?
hatchwagon gives an impression of being kind of tall. so there's some nice hauling capability fitting things tall upright. the total length of the hyundai touring from back entry to just behind the front seatbacks would be an interesting measurement length to have and compare with say, a mazda hauling machine. zzzoom6, btw, i don't grow tired of your praising of your mazda. if you love it, you do, and that is true. oh, pfflyer, someone re-introduce auto haiku again to edmunds! maybe i'll suggest it.
the only drawback i've noticed is that they lack some potential cross-bracing in the rear, giving up some body stiffness. which is why mazda probably chose the sedan for its mazdaspeed6. strange thing is, mazda chose the wagon for the mazdaspeed3... and of course the hatchback weighs a bit more with all that glass in the back window (some have argued that this is a good thing in that the weight distributions is a bit more equal...i think that argument is a stretch though. this logic would suggest i should put a bunch of lead weights in the back). so perhaps it does not handle as well as the mazda sedan, but when i test drove the sedan i didn't notice a huge difference. both have a tremendous amount of grip when cornering and both still corner flatter than anything else in this class. now that i've got this bed frame home, i'm now not so sure having the ability to haul these things home is such a good thing... my room is now in a shambles trying to make room to put together this thing! sorry, no pics of my sanctuary, especially in it's current condition! alright, break is over... gotta get back to work.
good point about the hyundai which is looking very promising, much better design imho than the sedan.
which is why mazda probably chose the sedan for its mazdaspeed6. that is precicely why they chose the sedan. in fact, you can't fold the rear seat backs down in the speed6 because of extra bracing that was added that would block the opening to the trunk and make that feature useless.
backy, do you have any preliminary photos' or other information on this? is it going to be, do you think, like the kia rondo or more like the late and sadly missed hyundai gt 5 dr. hatch?
"naw, what gave you that idea? like to see you get a fridge, or sofa in there. i have a truck for hauling things. something like a lawnmower/generator, i don't want inside the car with me." you just have to have the right hatchback to do that! i carried a sofa, and later a 18 cu. ft. fridge, in our old mid-80s classic 900 saab 3-door hatch. absolutely huge storage area - total with the rear seat folded flat was 57 cu. ft.
actually more like the kia cee'd. take a look here: aneesh, "2009 hyundai hyundai" #1, 15 aug 2007 6:23 pm
actually, you can fold down the back seats on a speed6, but the cross braces make it impossible to use the pass-through for large objects. it works fine for my snow skis, 8' 2x4s, or other long slender objects.
lol... about a year or so ago, i drove a new speed6 which was marked 23,995. loved the way it drove, but one of the "deal breakers" was when the salesperson told me the seats didn't fold at all. why do i always get the salesperson who doesn't know the product? to be fair, that wasn't as bad as when we went looking at the then-just-introduced toyota 3.5 v6. the toyota salesperson told me it had "a thousand torque." i didn't even try to correct him...
the toyota salesperson told me it had "a thousand torque." i think he was trying to say that it has a lot of torques.
which year is yours? i'm almost positive i couldn't fold the seat backs down on the '06 i played around with in the showroom.
i have an '06 speed6. the seats fold down, but there is a panel in the trunk that must be removed (no big deal, just five plastic clips). the cross braces are a little sharp, but you can use some rubber trim or foam insulation to cover it up. this is not listed as a feature because the braces get in the way, but for skis or lumber, it works great. i still vote the speed6 the deal of the decade for the under $24k many people paid for them. this is a great car. power, handling, toyota, awd, best brakes for under $50k, and good looks, too. there are still some '07s available. i wonder what they are going for?
the interior is very nice, but i just don't get the exterior styling at all.
i have a 2006 ex honda. personally, i'd keep my own interior (it is less cluttered and from the looks of it has more storage space) but happily trade the exterior looks. to each his own i guess, eh kirb?
i like the looks of the interior a lot... reminds me of the subaru but maybe less futuristic. anyways, i like it. but the button fetish that has shown up in the more recent acuras is maybe a bit much. i suppose if the buyer goes without nav, maybe the 30+ buttons that are pictured will be shaved down to more manageable levels. but the flow is nice, and i really like how the inside of the doors look: nice accents, colors and textures. but the exterior of the sedan still hasn't impressed me too much. it really reminds me of a saturn from several years ago. there seems to be no flow... like a bunch of elements designed to grab people's attention (the crease on the side, the "cyst-like" bulge in the headlights, the alloy wheels) just slammed together and end up looking a bit forced. i know honda has some great designers... the acura, tl, and even the rl have great flow and balance that attracts interest whereas the honda sedan tries to make a statement without actually pulling it off. fortunately, the exterior of the coupe looks dynamic and sleek. and the blunt butt seems to match the rest of the design on the coupe whereas the same element looks out of place on the sedan. i especially like the rear side window and the lower crease on the lower 1/4 on the side of the car. can't wait to drive it... hope the clutch on the 6 speed manual isn't as abrupt as the writer's of the edmunds article say though. but the engine, as expected, sounds like a gem in both 4 and 6 cylinder forms. and the v-6 that drops to 3 or 4 cylinders depending on driving conditions sounds very interesting. having a suspension that appears to be a bit more firm on the v-6 coupe is a move that i welcome and i can't wait to try it. september looks to be a great month... the next generation mazda at frankfurt and test driving the new honda coupe!
it looks like a winner. i wouldn't hestitate to buy it in a heartbeat. knowing honda, they took a great vehicle and made it better, sight unseen. the honda is the only car in the lineup i would and could purchase. honda can keep the tl, rl and acura, acura, acura, etc although i understand they have appeal, just not to me.
and the v-6 that drops to 3 or 4 cylinders depending on driving conditions sounds very interesting. and it looks like an ex, the trim i'd want, will start at $30k. that's a bit steep for a family sedan. how many miles will it take to make up the price difference between an '08 honda v6 at 29 mpg highway and an '08 hyundai v6 at what, like 25 or 26 mpg? still seems like an unnecessary gimmick to me and one that could lead to problems down the road. how durable are the active engine mounts that keep the engine from vibrating when it's only running on 3 or 4 cylinders for example? aside from that, i think i like it. i'll have to see it in person to be sure though. i do like the subaru-like interior though. shave off some buttons thought. what is with honda and all these buttons all of a sudden? and for the love of god, integrate the cd slot rather than having it look like some tacked on afterthought! it still looks as bad as the one in our '96 honda did and gets blocked by the shifter in nearly the same way.
still looks like a saturn l-series to me (unoriginal, derivative, boring, etc.) 2008 honda honda gee, honda seems to be really excited about it's "large" epa classification for the sedan, while the coupe is still considered a compact? wrong. despite the fact it has two fewer doors, the "empty nester" the coupe is supposed to appeal to still needs space to carry themselves and their gear. the 4-cylinder is still sacked with a 5-speed manual? wrong. a 6-speed manual is standard on the nissan 2.5s, why can't honda step up? sorry honda, there's nothing new or ground-breaking here. the styling still screams "l-series" both front and rear, and the interior, with it's 83 buttons, doesn't look nearly as classy and elegant as the current-gen, and in general leaves a lot to be desired.
the 4-cylinder is still sacked with a 5-speed manual? wrong. a 6-speed manual is standard on the nissan 2.5s, why can't honda step up? the v6 still gets a 5-speed atx too. who on earth wrote that press release? :surprise: they sure do take a lot of subjective measurements and list them like they are facts. as i type this, i can hear the collective drool from the honda crowd's mouths hitting the floor while they read that tripe. :p that press release almost made me sick to my stomach while i read it. i know the mfr is supposed to put it's newest baby on a pedestal but my god did honda pour it on thick with that one! styling embodies a bold, upscale, sophisticated and prestigious design direction. prestigious? :surprise: yeah, if you live in a white house, with white interior walls, a white picket fence, and think maytag is "the bomb". premium features (navigation, interface dial, bluetooth, information display) and overall refinement (solid driving feel) on par with vehicles one and even two classes above the honda's segment. so is that a hint that they are just going to kill off acura since they obviously don't need an upscale brand anymore now that the super best most greatest car ever has been announced? :p
no six speed automatic transmission? i thought all decent cars had to have that six-speed?
funny thing is, the new honda gets better mileage numbers than the toyota with it's 5-at vs. toyota's 6-at and comparable acceleration numbers. guess that 6-at may not be so important after all.
guess that 6-at may not be so important after all. since the extra gear only helps fuel econ in 99% of its applications imagine what it could do for the honda had honda went in that direction. :p you're also comparing an honda with cylinder de-activation to a toyota without it which isn't exactly apples to apples. toyota still has their hybrid version and honda dropped theirs in favor of the cylinder mgmt and a forthcoming diesel. we'd be wise to see how that all pans out before making such judgments imo. also, edmunds says the v6 honda sedan will be slower than the nissan by a couple of tenths. isn't the toyota v6, with the 6-speed atx, faster than that? the 6-speed in the ford also does a lot for that smaller engine. it's no barnstormer but it does put up respectable numbers that would be worse if not for the 6-speed atx. i think honda could have really pulled away if they used a 6-speed atx. but they didn't and i'm not seeing anything too terribly special about this new honda. it is nice and surely improved, but it's not leaps and bounds above the competition like some claimed it would be.
...i'm not seeing anything too terribly special about this new honda. it is nice and surely improved, but it's not leaps and bounds above the competition like some claimed it would be. oh, but i'm sure it'll win coty from mt, since the appliance they call a toyota won it last year. ever since a chevrolet classic :surprise: took coty in '91, it's been a laughable award ever since.
i think honda could have really pulled away if they used a 6-speed atx agreed. i do think that the honda should get recognition for increasing interior size and engine displacement, while making no changes to the transmission yet is still able to improve the mileage of the vehicle. the new honda is certainly an iterative rather than revolutionary change, but honda has always been that way. the new honda is bigger, faster, arguably more refined inside (that is just a subjective area imo) and certainly better looking than its predecessor. don't forget also that honda will stage out further improvements. look for the diesel (now that should be a huge step forward), look for a manual 6-speed in the v6 sedan. take a look at this comparison also: link title
"since the extra gear only helps fuel econ in 99% of its applications imagine what it could do for the honda had honda went in that direction. :p " i don't think the sixth gear is that important in general on a family sedan. it is not one of the deal breakers for me. seems like with some of the other stuff they moved to the head of the pack again.
"oh, but i'm sure it'll win coty from mt, since the appliance they call a toyota won it last year." so without driving this car you have decided it is an appliance? did you even need to look at the pictures/read about engines etc. to make any of your comments?
from the initial pictures, this seems to be a great effort from honda. looks are subjective; imo the front and side look good, i feel the back could have been better. however, i will wait to check out the car in person for a final judgement. similarly, the interior, expecially with the wood, looks great; i would expect to see the execution done well by honda - still that is something one can only really see in a live car. does anyone know when this car will arrive at dealers?
"still looks like a saturn l-series to me (unoriginal, derivative, boring, etc.)" nah, to me, i don't see any resemblance to the saturn (seemed like it in the spy pics, esp in the back). i feel the front headlamps look a bit like a hyundai's but will have to check it out in person.
so without driving this car you have decided it is an appliance? where did i say that? i merely pointed out that the toyota (which i did drive, and imo anything is better than one) won it last year, and i'm sure that the honda will take it this year, since there's nothing else in the running (except maybe the infiniti coupe). did you even need to look at the pictures/read about engines etc. to make any of your comments? i did, and based on what i read, it's not exactly "leaps and bounds" above the competition that some people claim it to be. i'll reserve final judgment until i drive one
the new 2008 honda may well be the best-ever honda but the styling, interior and exterior, just don't do much for me. i was expecting more changes, something more dramatic. as a personal preference, i like the 2007s better.
i think the interior (dash at least) is fine, if maybe a tad over-styled. the side view is also pretty good, if boring--reminds me of a 5 series. but i really don't know what honda was thinking of when it penned the front; it doesn't seem to match the rest of the car. and the rear really does look like a saturn, as others have noted--or maybe a hyundai without the taillamp extensions on the trunk. so nothing special exterior-wise. the swoopy coupe is, as in past generations, far superior to the sedan in the looks department. i expect honda aimed for "inoffensive" in styling the sedan vs. trying to break new ground and alienate a large portion of the buying public.
actually you're right about the design. i actually know a honda employee and he said that the interior and exterior design of the honda were based on the bmw.
anybody read the motortrend comparo of the 2008 honda v-6 to the toyota se? pretty interesting... they actually felt that the toyota was the better car in the twisties! i have heard that the se was more responsive and had a sportier suspension, but still, i am very surprised by this. they do say that the honda has much less body roll than before which i am very happy about. and they go on to confirm that the coupe is sportier than the sedan, saying "the last time a honda coupe offered these levels of style and performance it wore the honda nameplate." on the other hand the coupe, since cylinder deactivation will not be available on this body style, gas mileage is less than hyundai with 17 mpg honda, and 25 mpg hwy. car and driver also mention that they felt the sedan was pretty huge...almost the size of a 300 in length. i hope it doesn't feel "boatish" because of this... but all the reviews don't indicate this to be the case, but i'm sure it's growth in size will be hard to miss. they write, "lots of car here, and a great deal of seriousness. no more frisky four-door provocateur of tire-squealing feats, although the 200-hp four shows that old honda magic when you let it wail. but the car itself, even with the energetic v-6 up front, is good-citizen polite, a bit parental in its reserve. the average buyer age is now 50; these folks expect their four-doors to have expansive space. the floor is lower by 0.38 inch compared to previous honda, for more leg- and kneeroom, and the rear seat was pushed back an inch. factor in the extra inch and a half of cabin width, and, honda, we hardly know ya. you&#146;re 32, going on 64."
i don't think the sixth gear is that important in general on a family sedan. it is not one of the deal breakers for me. totally agree with you. however, it could have been even more with the extra gear and really made the competition try to catch up in a hurry. as it stands it's not really ahead of anyone aside from fuel econ. even there it's not the best because toyota has the toyota hybrid, nissan the nissan hybrid, and ford will soon release the ford hybrid. none offer the performance of the honda's v6 but if fuel econ is your primary concern then you should not buy any v6. is it a nice compromise? yes, but there are better compromises (see above hybrids) that offer decent performance and outstanding fuel econ. seems like with some of the other stuff they moved to the head of the pack again. like what? to get the beter i4 you have to get the coupe which is moronic imo. the interior is a cross between the current mazda and the subaru subaru. nice, but not anything new. the new v6 has great fuel econ but is not the performance leader (as far as we know so far) so there are better choices if performance is your game or if fuel econ is your game. for example, if performance were my game (which is usually is fwiw) the honda v6 wouldn't be my first choice because i could be beaten by an nissan. possibly the next mazda too. if fuel econ were my game i'd be getting a hybrid or the i4 option. to me, nothing about this new honda really stands out and separates it from the pack to the point that i'd have to say "wow!!! i need to get one of these!!!". it's nice, but not what i expected.
funny thing is, the new honda gets better mileage numbers than the toyota with it's 5-at vs. toyota's 6-at and comparable acceleration numbers. guess that 6-at may not be so important after all. honda sedan 19 honda, 29 hwy. toyota se 19 honda, 28 hwy. #'s f/ mt. yeah, but the honda sedan is using cylinder deactivation - cda - (which is arguably more complicated and probably more expensive technology) to get this mileage. but if, as edmonds writers have said, the cda system is transparent and does not draw attention to itself, i geuss it doesn't really matter how the honda gets its numbers just so long as it works reliably. it should be noted, though, the motortrend comparo gives the toyota the edge in which transmission it considered to be the most responsive.
i think the silver one in the picture akirby posted is without nav. the seats in the picture are cloth, not leather which tells me it might be the base i4 (single pipe) ex (not honda) model. i don't think a base i4 ex with nav will be a popular combination so honda wouldn't use that for photo shoot. the screen in that picture doesn't look like a color one used for nav anyway. if my assumption is correct, that means both the nav and non-nav version will come with that screen (like the toyota and g35/37) and the button numbers won't reduce. with the way the dash is setup it is kind of hard to imagine what could honda do without that little screen.
it's nice, but not what i expected. baggs, that pretty much sums up my reaction, especially after reading motor trend's toe-to-toe match with the toyota.
you're right. that picture was without nav, though it doesn't look to be the same screen. the nav screen is taller and has a secondary screen below it above the vents, which the non-nav doesn't have.
navigation is only available in the honda models, both i4 and v6. non-navi: navi:
is it me or does the non-navi stack have more buttons? :surprise: good placement for the navi system though. should be easy to view in that location. no sport mode on that atx? i'm a little shocked at that omission too.
the buttons across the top of the non-nav stack are related to the direction of the fan and the ac, defrost, etc. there are a ton of pictures here http://www.flickr.com/photos/10728020@n02/ that let you get a closer view if you choose to view them in a larger size.
i actually call this model the "lexord" :confuse
"the interior is a cross between the current mazda and the subaru subaru." the interior of the honda is gorgeous; the mazda 6 can't even in its dreams have an interior like this (at least from pictures). as for performance, we haven't seen any mazda 6 beat an honda performance, and i don't expect that to change.
"or maybe a hyundai without the taillamp extensions on the trunk" which themselves were a copy of the 03 honda's.
honda's are usually conservative; same is continued with this iteration. the interior looks great; let's see how well executed it is in real life
the non-navi does seem to have more buttons. the non-sport mode atx was pretty much expected ever since the first spy shots started appearing
the interior of the honda is gorgeous; that's your opinion. i think it's nice but still average. the mazda 6 can't even in its dreams have an interior like this (at least from pictures). i had an '04 mazda and it had the same faux aluminum, silver plastic all around the center stack that this new honda has. the part i was actually referring to is the use of the small display (navi), or larger display (non-navi) above the center stack that shows the hvac and entertainment info. mazda has been using similar displays since 2003 when it first appeared in, you guessed it, the mazda. i like that they others are now using that type of display, but realize that some people won't too.
the non-sport mode atx was pretty much expected ever since the first spy shots started appearing then why have the honda faithful been leading us to belive that this new gen was going to be light years ahead of the competition? i'm still not seeing anything to get excited about.
fwiw . . . i've rented a 2007 toyota se on two separate occasions and driven them over 1,500 miles on interstates each time with a consistent 34mpg. interestingly, i just rented a new 2008 ford ford (a.k.a. five hundred) with the new 3.5l v6 and 6-at, and it delivered 28.8mpg (typical speed 75mph) over a 1,350 mile trip, and it's a pretty good sized car - considered a full-size, or large car, i believe.
"that's your opinion. i think it's nice but still average." that's correct; its my opinion, i never implied anything else. just like it being average is your opinion, not fact. if you don't put 'imo' in every sentence, why do you expect others to do teh same? "i had an '04 mazda and it had the same faux aluminum, silver plastic all around the center stack that this new honda has" its the execution my friend; the mazda 6 was all cheezy plastic; this one, if it is uptp honda's usual standards, will be in another zip code
the non-sport mode atx was pretty much expected ever since the first spy shots started appearing "then why have the honda faithful been leading us to belive that this new gen was going to be light years ahead of the competition? i'm still not seeing anything to get excited about." be frank, would a sport mode atx make it light years ahead? no, and if it did have it, would you say it is light years ahead? no again. what excites me about this car is its gorgeous interior; clearly a step up on anything its competition offers (with the exception of the volkswagen). again, its my opinion.
is it me or does the non-navi stack have more buttons? good placement for the navi system though. should be easy to view in that location. no sport mode on that atx? i'm a little shocked at that omission too. the navi will have many functions built into its screen/control knob, hence - less buttons. the screen up top debuted in the '05 honda and looks great in both applications. should be handy, i agree. as for the sportshift, i personally could care less as long as they offer me some options in my gear selector (d3, 2, 1). if it is just drive and low, i'll be upset. if i wanted to shift, i'd get a manual, since sportshift feels nothing like a manual. as far as styling, its my turn to say a lil somthin i have a 2006 4-cyl ex honda sedan(led taillight model). to me, the exterior of the new honda is fantastic. the interior doesn't impress me as much as i might have expected, although i think the gauge cluster looks wonderful. i read that at night, the climate controls light up aqua-green, while the stereo controls light up white, to help differentiate them easily (a simple way to clean things up, i think). overall it is busier than my 06 is, although it doesn't seem to integrate any extra functions into the interface. so, if we're keeping a scorecard, mine would go exterior styling - a interior styling - b+ interior ergonomics - b- as with a lot of things, seeing the car in person could change my mind altogether in both respects (for the better or worse).
don't think the sixth gear is that important in general on a family sedan. it is not one of the deal breakers for me. and it begins i got to laugh at that one. just like other discussions here, if it's not on the honda, then it shouldn't be on a car. everything that the honda has that other cars don't makes it better, and what other cars have that the honda doesn't is unnecessary, pointless, and just a gimmick. as for my opinions, the '08 is about what i expected. they're still shooting for the 45+ midlevel management type and little old ladies. bigger, and just about as conservative. but, i do like the engine choices they're offering. a 200hp i4 seems very impressive to me. even the 180hp version of the i4 will be the highest in the midsize category now. it will be real interesting to see the pricing on them.
as for my opinions, the '08 is about what i expected. they're still shooting for the 45+ midlevel management type and little old ladies. bigger, and just about as conservative. hmmm, i guess i need a raise then. i'm 19, and love the look of the new honda, more so than the exterior of my 2006.
wrong, look at both cars, '03 honda and '06 hyundai--lamps are much different in shape. the '08 honda's lamps now match the shape of those on the hyundai, with the sides canted back from top to bottom. but then, this is also much like the taillamps on several current lexus models, so it's hard to tell just who honda was copying here.
there are exceptions of course, but the majority of people i see driving them are either a middle age b female c both. i don't blame them though. its the same strategy that put the toyota at the top of the midsize car segment.
uh... i think the 06' hyundai copied 98'-02' honda honda's head lamp, not the current version's.
but we were talking about tail lamps. :surprise: hyundai's engineers admitted they used the audi audi as a model for exterior styling. the headlamp shape is pretty nondescript and has been used by many, many other cars.
okay, tail lamps. so you were saying... is similar to are you kidding?
as for performance, we haven't seen any mazda 6 beat an honda performance, and i don't expect that to change. this is the honda-holic's attitude in spades... whatever facts don't fit with their view, they ignore. ok, how about braking, where the honda stops 10 feet longer according to the edmunds midsize comparo - or were you thinking a bigger # is better? or how about that the honda tested in the same comparo to be able to do the slalom at 60 mph where the mazda was able to do it at 65 mph. the honda has many strengths, but to overstate and exaggerate how good it is does nothing but make me think you are a indeed a honda-holic. look, i hope the new honda raises the bar... as a consumer, i always look forward to new models irregardless of whose name appears on the car; competition is a great thing and we are very lucky that this competition by all manufacturers in this segment results in better cars for all of us regardless of what brand we choose. as a long time honda fan, i look forward to trying out the new honda. so far, there are things that i'm excited about, but there are also areas where honda could have done better. but the main thing for me is how it drives... for that i'll have to wait a little longer.
no, i'm not. look at the shape of the lamps on the rear quarter panels--they're nearly exact copies except the honda has more white plastic. and honda didn't put the extensions onto the trunk lid. they are saving that for the refresh in 2011 my (don't laugh, they've done exactly that before).
it does look similar. are you kidding? the shape of the tail light is almost identical if you don't look at the part that is attached to trunk.
you beat me to it backy! anyway, this car is combinations of 4-5 cars. identity crisis anyone? i like this honda, but this really isn't a design masterpiece. i don't mind buying one because it's roomy, saves gas, and reliable, but not for the looks. interior looks great except there are too many buttons for my taste(i like current versions simplicity), but shapes and materials looks very nice. oh by the way, acura is the best honda ever.
will there still be a hybrid honda here or will there be a diesel? i heard the diesel is a 2.2 liter 140 hp i4 and gets 50 mpg. but i think they could make it more powerful.
hybrid honda is dead (, jim). rip.
i have to admit that i'm too much of a (i want power and i want gas mileage at the same time!) kind of a guy to have ever even test driven the mazda 6. when you combine somewhat poor gas mileage with somewhat poor power at the same time, you won't get on my "gotta have it list." (note: i know the speed6 mostly solved the deficiencies and inefficiencies in the mazda 6) that being said.... i do like a car that can handle well in the twisties, and the honda's have always been competent in this regard.
love mazda 6, but this honda kills mazda 6's interior material. it's too busy for my taste, but i can't argue against the material.
is it me or is it that honda did away with cool electroluminiscent (optitron) gauges of the prev generation and replaced them with cheaper overstyled regular ones?
love mazda 6, but this honda kills mazda 6's interior material. it's too busy for my taste, but i can't argue against the material. i'm not sure how you guys can say that? :confuse: the silver plastic in those pictures looks exactly the same to me as what was in the 6 before they changed the center stack to all black. the entire dash and most of the doors of the 6 are covered in a soft material that has been compared to leather by mt or c&d. i can't remember which one. here , mt comments on the quality of the interior materials in the 6. the soft textures and surface coverings are unusually good and would be at home in any aspirational european sedan. overall, the cabin of the mazda 6s is highly functional, tasteful, and slightly more high-end than the other two in this test. the "other two" were the nissan and the volkswagen. i don't think anyone here will argue that volkswagen makes some mighty fine interiors. have you guys that keep dogging the interior of the 6 ever acutually sat in one and touched the materials or are you going by pictures?
be frank, would a sport mode atx make it light years ahead? no, and if it did have it, would you say it is light years ahead? no again. honestly, no it wouldn't. but i was expecting more. maybe a dsg or something of the like. you honda boys are quick to point out what other mfrs left out of their cars and are equally quick to defent honda's blatant omissions. how are we to call this new honda class leading when it doesn't match or better the competition in any way?
the "other two" were the nissan and the volkswagen. i don't think anyone here will argue that volkswagen makes some mighty fine interiors. if they were talking about the current nissan (and not an 03 model), a volkswagen (not the volkswagen), or an honda interior, i would be impressed. but those two were pretty easy to beat, imo.
it appears some folks have some serious mis-conceptions about the mazda and what it is all about. i'm betting the next 6 will be a pretty serious sports sedan and keep all these other cars in it's rear view mirror. i have no proof of that, and weight could prove me wrong, but i think mazda will come through once more.
please don't generalize; if there are some people you have a drudge against, take that out to their posts; not mine. the honda has always been a car that is good at most things it does, not always the best in any one category; this iteration seems to be following the same lines.
so you're telling me that you think the volkswagen's interior is low rent then? that's literally the first time i've ever heard someone speak negatively about a volkswagen interior.
"it appears some folks have some serious mis-conceptions about the mazda and what it is all about. i'm betting the next 6 will be a pretty serious sports sedan and keep all these other cars in it's rear view mirror. i have no proof of that, and weight could prove me wrong, but i think mazda will come through once more." really, no one denies that hte mazda handled better than the honda; however, that was the end of its superiority over the honda. everything else, including engines, refinement power, fuel economy, interior fit and finish were always better than the 6 (imo). i have no doubt that the new 6 will be a good car, expecially since mazda executives addmitted that the reason for the failure of the 6 in the us market was due to its slightly smaller size compared to its competitors. i am expecting a larger car this time around. hopefully, they can keep the zoom-zoom dna and extend it to superior engines as well. i will be in the market for a mid sizer in mid 2009 (when my current 330i lease runs out); be then both these cars will have been in the market for a year plus; things will be much clearer.
"have you guys that keep dogging the interior of the 6 ever acutually sat in one and touched the materials or are you going by pictures?" i frequently rent mazda cars; have always liked the way they drive. interior fit and finish (to me) is not upto honda standards, and the new honda goes one up (i especially liked the pictures with the wood interior); having said that, the new 6 is due soon, so we can compare new to new.
sorry, you are the one wrong here. when the hyundai came out, i had to do a double take to tell them apart (at least initially). if you read my posts from then, i always maintained that the hyundai's tail lamps were a better form of the honda's; my views remain the same. most of the automotive press out there (and this has been discussed to death) said as much; so i was not alone in this line of thought.
":this is the honda-holic's attitude in spades... whatever facts don't fit with their view, they ignore. ok, how about braking, where the honda stops 10 feet longer according to the edmunds midsize comparo - or were you thinking a bigger # is better? or how about that the honda tested in the same comparo to be able to do the slalom at 60 mph where the mazda was able to do it at 65 mph. the honda has many strengths, but to overstate and exaggerate how good it is does nothing but make me think you are a indeed a honda-holic" same as every post of yours makes me think you are a mazda-holic (nothing worng with it). i have always maintained handling wise the 6 is superior to the honda - the slalom superiority would come in there, right? or are your glasses too tinted to see praise from unexpected quarters? as for brakes, i changed to potenza re950s and the braking improved significantly. the brake feel of the honda has always been superb. by the way, i don't even drive an honda now; have a sport pkg equipped 330i, so i do know a bit about handling/slalom/brakes.
the new honda looks like a fine car, and i think it will at least retain it's current status in this segment. it has a little more of everything compared to my 03 ex v6. if i was in need of a car right now, i would be looking at the equipment options and colors right now, and anticipating a test drive. i don't see myself growing tired of my current car anytime soon though. the bar has been raised.
i can understand why some people (who do not have an eye for details) would think that the taillamps of the '03-05 honda resemble those of the '06+ hyundai. they both have a horizontal orientation, wrap from the rear quarter panel into the trunk lid, and have red and white lenses. the resemblence stops there, however, and i can't see any substantiation for your claim that the lamps on the hyundai are copies of those on the honda. the shape is totally different. but honda has fixed that for '08. but at the risk of boring everyone to death, maybe we should agree to disagree and move on.
"it does look similar. are you kidding? the shape of the tail light is almost identical if you don't look at the part that is attached to trunk" wow, you gius sure must be kidding. half a tail lamp similarity. how about this; the honda's tail lamp mimics every cars out there with white reverse lights???? maybe the car itself also mimics other cars, since it has 4 black tires?
"i can understand why some people (who do not have an eye for details) would think that the taillamps of the '03-05 honda resemble those of the '06+ hyundai." please don't imply 'eye for detail superiority' and then ask to agree to disagree. you are not ready to agree that the 03 honda's and the hyundai's tail lamps were similar, but want us to believe the 08 honda's tail lamps look like the hyundai's, when there is no lamp on the trunk? eye for detail or convenient memory?
http://www.edmunds.com/insideline/do/drives/firstdrives/articleid=58887
ah, now you get it! you've no doubt remembered all the people who said the hyundai stole the honda's rear end, when there was only a slight resemblence, yet now you don't see those same people admitting the resemblence in the other direction. because a honda can't look like a hyundai (or a kia, as in kia), can it?
i loved the exterior, and loved the way it drove, but just couldn't stand 6's plastic. similar with hyundai, but i prefer hyundai's interior(if it was all black like platinum edition) than mazda 6. anyway, the only thing i like(look wise) about this honda is the interior even though it seems too busy and less ergonomic. i'm pretty much sure that i would like the new mazda 6's styling much better than the new honda because any mazda products are more sportier than honda. and i'm sporty kinda guy. i'm certain mazda will upgrade their interior material because both of their suv's look great in and out.
"ah, now you get it! you've no doubt remembered all the people who said the hyundai stole the honda's rear end, when there was only a slight resemblence, yet now you don't see those same people admitting the resemblence in the other direction. because a honda can't look like a hyundai (or a kia, as in kia), can it" wow backy; that's so original. please go back to the time the hyundai was launched; you will see i was one of the first few who said the tail lamps resembled the honda's and i liked their design so much that even said that this should have been the design on the honda. af for your second point; i hate proving you wrong twice in a few minutes; please see my first few posts on the 08 honda; i said that the headlamps of the honda seem to resemble the hyundai's. wish you had read the posts before commenting blindly. that's what happens when you generalize without support.
it looks exactly like a porsche.....a 1954 porsche-allgaier p312 coffee tractor that is. i'm making a ridiculous statement as i'm weary of hearing "it looks like xxxxx" every time a new model of any vehicle is introduced. i like the new honda styling on the outside, don't like the inside. kiss!
well the honda is starting to look a bit blended, as most cars seem to be. people say the saturn was the fresh look or a hyundai is sort of like this or that, and well they all look like a blend of euro knock-offs. i think the starting point was volkswagen for the nissan, which was pretty cool for the bucks, and the toyota has the bangle butt off the bmw3. oh heck, what is the difference, since 1968 it has all been downhill. the big 3 had the look back then. and in euro cars, well i don't know, they had great looking sports cars dating back to 1950's. for the most part, the mid-sized and full sized cars are now all too tall doors, with some having the chop top look. great, just great, like i want a modern day merc chop top. even sports cars have the too tall doors, and you now sit in a bathtub to drive. very few graceful looking cars, and few with any wow factor at all. i wouldn't mind some though, like an slk. in a mid-sized sedan, my '07 honda looks fine, nothing over the top and nothing to right home about, just modern and areo dynamic. not quite a jag for looks though there is the new chevrolet, which once again looks like another nicely blended car, as in all the rest. the new bimmer 3 are looking pretty good. nissan i guess is the only less expensive car with some extra style. l
because a honda can't look like a hyundai (or a kia, as in kia), can it? doesn't seem like that would be a logical thing to do. if i am honda, i am looking to emulate designs from higher end cars, or higher selling cars. not cars that sell a fraction of what my car does.
no, they still appear to be electroluminiscent, much like the honda's. they don't show up really obviously in pictures, but they are.
as for performance, we haven't seen any mazda 6 beat an honda performance, and i don't expect that to change. says 03accordman then i said: this is the honda-holic's attitude in spades... whatever facts don't fit with their view, they ignore. ok, how about braking, where the honda stops 10 feet longer according to the edmunds midsize comparo - or were you thinking a bigger # is better? or how about that the honda tested in the same comparo to be able to do the slalom at 60 mph where the mazda was able to do it at 65 mph. the honda has many strengths, but to overstate and exaggerate how good it is does nothing but make me think you are a indeed a honda-holic. then 03accordman responded with: i have always maintained handling wise the 6 is superior to the honda - the slalom superiority would come in there, right? or are your glasses too tinted to see praise from unexpected quarters? ok, try to reconcile your two statements...they contradict each other a bit eh? i'm more than happy to accept compliments from others, particularly from "unexpected" people. but look at your first statement...where was the praise exactly? seems to me you were saying that the honda was, and will continue to be (even though you have yet to drive one and no review of the new honda has said that it is the handling leader in this class) superior in all aspects including performance. did i paraphrase you incorrectly by being too literal in defining your own words? and as to my bias, everyone who has followed my posts will know that i like honda and i like honda. but for my wants and needs, the mazda was the smarter choice, especially considering i was able to get it for 4k less than a comparable honda. believe me, i was surprised that the mazda was my ultimate choice... it was barely on my radar when i first started looking with the honda 6 speed and the subaru gt far out in front. in the end, i'm glad i kept an open mind. but just because i now own one, does not make me dislike everything else... hardly, i have and continue to recommend other car manufacturers to friends and acquantances if their wants and needs seem to not fit mazda. but i will not hesitate to correct people who try to misrepresent the mazda with things that are untrue. anyways, here's some pics of my mazda circa 2005 (the 06 and 07 have a black center stack). and the seat material is not the same as stock...after reading about a fraying issue on the older cloth seats, i got them changed before i had a problem.:
i have to admit that i'm too much of a (i want power and i want gas mileage at the same time!) kind of a guy to have ever even test driven the mazda 6. when you combine somewhat poor gas mileage with somewhat poor power at the same time, you won't get on my "gotta have it list." aren't you the one with the ford? i haven't heard you complain about the amount of power in your car even though you have power sapping awd and an automatic yet we share the same engine. and when a couple car magazines have tested the mazda w/ mtx 0-60 times in the mid 6 seconds, i'm not too sure where you can reasonably say "somewhat poor power". yeah, 215 hp vs 268 hp is a big difference, but it's more what a car can do with the power that matters imo. 0-60 times differ with the higher hp cars by about .5 of a second... not that big of a difference. and it's not like i'm looking to beat every car at a stoplight off the line anyway. that's why i prefer a car that handles well in turns and in braking rather than a car that drag races really well. as far as gas mileage goes, there was a couple weeks where i was doing all office work so i was only doing honda driving with a few hills and tons of stop and go in traffic on the way home. i got 18 mpg in that all honda driving. and on my longer business trips, i got 27 mpg plus while averaging 80 mph the majority of the way on a highway that had a fair amount of hills. this is better mpg than the new honda coupe w/ v-6! and i am not gentle on the throttle either... while not rabidly tailgating and manically speeding, if the opportunity presents itself to pass someone or take a corner quicker than most, i will do so. and on the highway, the ratio of cars i pass vs being passed is around 10:1. now i have no doubt if i were driving an honda v-6 w/ a mtx, i'd probably get better mpg... but how much gas can i buy with the $4000 i saved when i got the mazda vs the honda? probably a lot.
you sir raise the bar on honda..itis (a disease where the affected person cannot see beyond a certain chrome "h" wherever it may be placed) boy this is funny.
we need to get away from characterizing each other and stick to the cars.
interior fit and finish (to me) is not upto honda standards, and the new honda goes one up unfortunately we weren't talking about fit and finish but rather the actual quality of the interior materials. at least i wasn't anyway. look at the pics zzzoom posted of his 6's interior and tell me how the shiny silver plastic in the new honda is any different than what you see there. if what you've been renting are newer copies of the 6 then you are probably seeing the newer all black center stack which imo is a step down from the original silver and the silver in the honda and toyota. the entire dash and most of all the doors in the 6 are covered with a high quality, soft to the touch material that has a leather grain look to it. so you could be right about the fit and finish between the two but honestly, fit and finish are not on my radar anymore because i haven't owned a car with rattles or squeaks inside since our '96 honda. and even in that car the squeaks and rattles didn't show up for 3 or 4 years. i'm not concerned with a few mm between panel pieces as long as they don't make noise. i'm not actually concerned with the quality of the interior materials either and tend to ford on the driving experience when i'm shopping. not everyone does that, hence our discussion of interiors.
let me start by saying the new honda looks alright but certainly reminded me of various others, honda honda (grill), hyundai hyundai (headlight), volkswagen, saturn, bimmer, etc... as for the honda/hyundai revelation, it has been proven the hyundai did not copy honda's rear taillight, as the design froze long before the debut of the honda in question. i believe backy mentioned it earlier, the hyundai's inspiration came from an audi.
did you realize i was not talking only about you and your opinions? i thought so, as you accused me of generalizing without support, but maybe not. the hyundai's taillamps would have looked strange on the '03 honda, imo. the hyundai's lamps fit its rear end perfectly--which is why hyundai chose that design; not because it bore even a faint resemblance to the honda's lamps. just as honda had no intention of copying anyone (except its own tl, perhaps) with the '08 honda design. but as i've said a few times before, there are only so many ways to bend sheet metal and make lamps that fit the car body while meeting regulations and being aesthetically pleasing.
did you realize i was not talking only about you and your opinions? i thought so, as you accused me of generalizing without support, but maybe not. i'll go out on a limb and predict that the honda will be a sales success and sell even more honda in 2008 than 2007. the sniping will be irrelevant.
i'm going to have to agree with backy in post 4205. there are only so many ways to style a 5-passenger sedan, and they are bound to resemble yet another 5-passenger sedan. we've all been over this anyway; great style is in the eye of the beholder. saying someone likes all things out of one particular brand just because of the brand name doesn't progress the conversation, even if it may be true. but putting words in someone's mouth won't help things here. let's all take one of two things... a deep breath, or a valium.
yes, i think the toyota's stay at the top of the car sales charts will be short-lived--assuming honda can make enough honda and isn't too tight on pricing.
did you see the road test from edmunds.com, which i posted yesterday? also they have a separate test of the coupe. i expect we'll see reports in the auto mags like c/d and mt with their october issues (due out around sep. 1).
i expect we'll see reports in the auto mags like c/d and mt with their october issues (due out around sep. 1). i won't be surprised when car & driver and motor trend give the 2008 honda rave reviews. that's what they always do. the honda and toyota are fine automobiles, to be sure, but i'm not so certain they actually deserve all of the accolades they receive.
first of all, i think you have me confused with another andres, or andre1969??? i opted for the 2003 honda chrysler v6 coupe back in november of 2002, and kept it for 65,000 miles, 50 months, and sold it for 53% of the out the door 25k price i got it for (had 16" polished aluminum alloy wheels thrown in to make it every bit as good as the ex v6 coupe (except for no leather and no moonroof; things that i didn't want anyway). i averaged 25-26 mpg in mixed driving with heavy san diego traffic and i drive much like you do, if not slightly more aggressively (a lot as you described), with probalby a 15:1 ratio of passing people to being passed. on long trips, even driving through la traffic (always a hiccup), i was able to average 30 mpg going 80-85 mph whenever i could and traffic would allow. all this with just the 5 speed auto. in regards to preferring a great handler and braker to a great drag racer, i say this: i want both! why can't you have the best of both? or at least near the best of both?
as for performance, we haven't seen any mazda 6 beat an honda performance, and i don't expect that to change. says 03accordman "then i said: this is the honda-holic's attitude in spades... whatever facts don't fit with their view, they ignore. ok, how about braking, where the honda stops 10 feet longer according to the edmunds midsize comparo - or were you thinking a bigger # is better? or how about that the honda tested in the same comparo to be able to do the slalom at 60 mph where the mazda was able to do it at 65 mph. the honda has many strengths, but to overstate and exaggerate how good it is does nothing but make me think you are a indeed a honda-holic. then 03accordman responded with: i have always maintained handling wise the 6 is superior to the honda - the slalom superiority would come in there, right? or are your glasses too tinted to see praise from unexpected quarters? ok, try to reconcile your two statements...they contradict each other a bit eh? i'm more than happy to accept compliments from others, particularly from "unexpected" people. but look at your first statement...where was the praise exactly? seems to me you were saying that the honda was, and will continue to be (even though you have yet to drive one and no review of the new honda has said that it is the handling leader in this class) superior in all aspects including performance. did i paraphrase you incorrectly by being too literal in defining your own words?" when i said performance, i was referring to power/acceleration/fuel economy. was not referring to handling, which i already agreed to be better on the 6. see any contraditcion there?
baggs, the fit is responsible for rattles (or lack of), the finish is a different thing altogether. finish is the actual finishing of the interior, which to me has been better on the honda.
i understood you to mean performance not including handling. though some might put handling inside the word performance. kind of like the way bill clinton defined "sex" or sexual relations. simply a misunderstanding.
i won't be surprised when car & driver and motor trend give the 2008 honda rave reviews. that's what they always do. not exactly a rave review: c&d first drive
"did you realize i was not talking only about you and your opinions? i thought so, as you accused me of generalizing without support, but maybe not." now you are spinning it. you were referring to my particular post, not to anyone esle. you said i 'remembered' that at the hyundai introduction some people said that it's taillamps resembled the honda, and then you added that 'honda can't copy hyundai' or something to that effect. sir, it was directed at my post, and when referred to my earlier post where i had said that i felt the headlamps looked like a hyundai's, you conveniently backtracked and said you were replying to other posters as well. not true. anyway, i am not getting into a discussion of who copies who, neither was that my intent here.
given that both the honda and toyota have legendary reputations for reliability lasting decades and decades, i think no amount of accolades could be more than they deserve.
plus, we've already seen several teaser shots of the new mazda. when will we have specs, photos and first impressions of that car? the 6 is scheduled to debut at frankfurt early next month (press days are sept. 11-12, open to public on sept. 13-23). i'm sure the info and pics will be pouring in before the show is open to the public.
baggs, the fit is responsible for rattles (or lack of), the finish is a different thing altogether. finish is the actual finishing of the interior, which to me has been better on the honda. i know. but again, we were talking about the quality of the materials. not how they fit or how good they looked all grouped together in one big piece. the plastics and other materials in the 6 and the honda are extremely similar. how they look all mashed together is where the difference lies and that varies from person to person. i think they both look just fine and certainly wouldn't base my purchase one having a slightly tighter fit than the other.
if they were talking about the current nissan (and not an 03 model), a volkswagen (not the volkswagen), or an honda interior, i would be impressed. but those two were pretty easy to beat, imo. i have some more for you in case you didn't actually read the entire comparo i posted. from that same c&d comparison of the 6, nissan, and volkswagen. the volkswagen's interior is clean, attractive, comfortable, and cool. its solid, substantial feel is attributable to class-leading build-quality demonstrated by perfect paint, tight gaps, and nary a squeak or rattle. all the buttons, wheels, and knobs are damped and complement that oh-so-german black-rubber dash pad and the fold-flat ventilation outlets. indigo-blue and red instrumentation, with logically located switchgear, is now a common volkswagen trait, but it still looks as good as it works. the trunk is impeccably finished, with a full-size spare and brushed-stainless-steel gas strut to boot. there's a reason volkswagen/audi are often benchmarked for interior design--they're that good. you'll find the same comments on pretty much any volkswagen interior no matter where you look. still think the 6 won that contest easily? :p
:shades:
wow, although c&d is very reserved with its tone but anyone who can read through the line can see that they are not impressed at all with the 2008 honda. here are some quotes from c&d: you were just a cute little three-door when you were born. now you&#146;re 32 and crowding the ends of the garage. factor in the extra inch and a half of cabin width, and, honda, we hardly know ya. you&#146;re 32, going on 64. i have to agree with c&d, this is no longer the honda that i'll eager want to step in and take it out for a spin. this has become an appliance, just like the toyota (5 inches longer than the toyota, are you kidding me honda?). man i missed the '94-'97 and '98-'02 honda.
baggs32, the pictures you posted in #4222 are waaaay too wide for the page. i had to take the message down. sorry. and in the process i managed to delete #4208 by benderofbows for no good reason. i can't even get a copy of it. i'm very sorry.
not exactly a rave review:c&d first drive that review could have been (and probably was) written from a press release. all it says is that the honda has grown in size, dimensions. not much of a review at all. i'd wager a dollar to a doughnut that the rave reviews are already in the works.
when you think about it all automobiles are appliances made for passenger transport. there are some that transport in a more vigorous manner. those have room for only two passengers..little to no luggage...and cost more than my last two or three years salaries. then there are a few with 4 doors that transport 4 passengers with acura..their luggage..and cost more than one years salary. then there is the rest they transport me, my wife, an occasional passenger or two. it should get out its own way (0-60 mph in around 7 seconds or so) and gets out of that semi's way at the end of the on-ramp. gets 20 mpg around town and 28-30 mpg on the highway. is fairly quiet and reasonably comfortable. it doesn't roll over at the first curve in the road. has a nice hot heater and cold a.c. has to be fairly nice to look at for 5 years or however long it takes to pay it off. and ideally it isn't in the shop for an undue amount of time. this pretty much sums up what most people are looking for so if that makes my choice an appliance so be it. yeah, my choice of appliance may be different than anothers but in this category they are all people moving appliances.
yeah, that's the saturn i thought the new honda looks like! thanks for looking it up and posting it. despite the looks of the exterior, i am sure it will sell well. the honda, even without a redesign, is still a great car. with the noise cancellation technology and a step up in safety ratings (i'm assuming), i would think that this car will be considered an improvement by many.
why me??? lol
i'll try linking to them later. sorry about that! i have a 17" widescreen laptop set to 1680x1050 so they looked fine to me.
i'll go out on a limb and predict that the honda will be a sales success and sell even more honda in 2008 than 2007. i'm not so sure they will. not because of anything honda did in the redesign, but midsize car sales have been dropping for nearly a decade now. and now, more than ever, people want smaller, more fuel efficent cars, and or hybrids. for the last decade, the asian car companies have been doing alright by taking away from the domestics, but how much lower can they drive them? i think honda took a pretty big gamble with making it bigger, less fuel efficent. that seems to be contray to where the market is heading. it could pay off big if people (after a test drive) decide they want the bigger car. but it could also go the other way.
but in this category they are all people moving appliances. truer words were never spoken. while all mid-size sedan owners would like to think that their transportation vehicles are "sporty" or "luxurious," the truth is that they are "moving appliances," not unlike a fine washing machine or nifty clothes dryer. some are better than others at what they do, of course.
unless you can read minds, you might not want to assume what other people are thinking when they are typing a post. have a great day!
yeah, i agree--c/d's actual review and first comparo vs. other mid-sizers will put the honda on top--again. by then they'll get over the fact that the honda is bigger than the previous generation. what a surprise--an honda that is bigger than the last one! :surprise: like that's never happened before. note their negative comments were really nits, e.g. picks on the dash styling and the fact that the car is bigger. and did i mention that they carped about the honda being bigger?
it may not be less fuel efficient. my 2007 was epa rated at 26/34, before the revised numbers. however, i'm seeing way over that, and i don't drive slowly at all, plus i have a 5-mile commute and do mostly honda driving. on most tanks i am seeing 28-31 mpg. highway is 34-plus, even at 80 mph with the tach pegged at 3,000 and a/c on. i think the honda will remain a good mix of performance, size, and fuel efficiency.
i think honda took a pretty big gamble with making it bigger, less fuel efficent. as others have posted, there really isn't a drop in mileage with the revised epa estimates. bigger, more hp and about the same mileage. not bad.
as others have posted, there really isn't a drop in mileage with the revised epa estimates. bigger, more hp and about the same mileage. not bad. feel free to correct me if i'm wrong, but the way i interpret most of what i've read is, the thing that keeps it's fuel numbers the same is the cylinder deactivation. but, how many people will buy that option? and how many people do enough highway driving to take advantage of it? i still think its a gamble. most other car companies market their large cars separately, the nissan for nissan, ford for ford, the impalla (which i think honda is targeting with the redesign)for gm, the toyota for toyota, the 300 for chrysler and so on. the only one of those cars that sell in signifacant numbers is the chevrolet. and its sales numbers are still a good bit lower than the honda.
and in the process i managed to delete #4208 by benderofbows for no good reason. i can't even get a copy of it. i'm very sorry. getting a bit trigger happy over there?
have you ever driven an honda sev6 or say the saturn xr? bet they beat most all of the older sports cars for handling and acceleration and in a way are close to modern days sports cars. yes, they are sporty. why do you think ford had to up the hp on its v8 & v6? look at the slalom test scores, 0-60 scores, lateral g testing and such, over the years then see how well the modern day sedan is -- just awesome. ok, it is not a miata or a porsche, but these cars are not old boats of days-gone-bye. style wise, they look modern and sleek, with little to no wow factor. yes, we need to get the wow back. gm, please bring the magic of '68 - '69 back! to me a true appliance car are those which are rental grade, such as the ford, chevrolet, chevrolet, fit, chevrolet and the like. those are bought for transportation, point a-b. loren
but, how many people will buy that option? and how many people do enough highway driving to take advantage of it? that's why honda opted not to make it a "dumb" cylinder turn off system, but a "smart" one that can use not only half its cylinders or all, but also 2/3 of them as well; for low speed cruising, for high speed cruising, and for leaving saturn xr's in the rear view mirror when the time comes.
the impalla (which i think honda is targeting with the redesign) i don't see honda targeting the chevrolet for anything. i think with the size honda is making a play for those who are stepping out of suvs but still want room. also, we should keep in mind that the honda barely makes it into 'full-size' territory. if you buy it with a sunroof, it's back into mid-size range (interior + trunk = >120 cu sq ft). on the mileage, all their engines are either more efficient than the previous generation or equally as efficient. regardless of how they achieve that, that's the situation.
i am old enough to recall the brand new idea from gm for the cadillac. the 8-6-4 engine was going to be one of those great inventions. no thanks, i will do a wait and see, and may never jump into the 6-4-3 engine buy. i own the '07 v6 se honda and can get up to 29 mpg at good speed. at the 60 mph speeds, who knows, maybe say 31 mpg or more??? l
the majority of drivers now are locked into honda traffic. i don't see cylinder deactivation as being usefull to most drivers. a lot the same reason fewer and fewer stick shifts are being put into cars.
i don't know any dishwasher, or clothes washer, or dryer, that would make it fun for me to use one. i do know some vehicles i could (and one i do) have fun in all the time. fun is good for the soul!
the new epa estimates will have many car buyers thinking the 08 models have terrible fuel economy, when they may actually get higher mileage than 07 models. will this affect sales of all cars, or convince people to buy smaller cars? i think it will have some effect.
well, sticks tend to get better mileage in the honda vs. autos....... also, if your only concern is being locked in honda traffic then there is no reason to opt for the engine with cylinder deactivation in the first place!!!!
sticks do get better milage, but people tend to view driving them in traffic a pain in the [non-permissible content removed]. thats why thery're dissapearing. more and more people are driving in traffic. also, if your only concern is being locked in honda traffic then there is no reason to opt for the engine with cylinder deactivation in the first place!!!! thats my point. i don't think many people will, and thus, the milage estimates will not bear out. as i said, i could be wrong, but from what i've read, the epa estimates are bassed on the v6 with the cylinder deactivation feature. i'm betting less than 15% of the honda will have it, and even less will bennifit from it.
well, i live and work in and around a very high traffic honda of san diego, and i'll tell you that the highway mileage still matters more to me than the honda mileage, overall. even then, since only the v6 has cylinder deactivation, most people will opt for the 4 banger, which gets better fuel economy than the v6, even w/o cylinder deactivation. so epa estimates for the 4 cylinder are great!
feel free to correct me if i'm wrong, but the way i interpret most of what i've read is, the thing that keeps it's fuel numbers the same is the cylinder deactivation. that's only in the v6. the i4 does not have vcm but the epa estimates are about same as the 07 models.
a bit trigger happy? heh, more like a bit addled! um, ahem, no no, we had some, um, technical difficulties. that's what happened!
i said, i could be wrong, but from what i've read, the epa estimates are bassed on the v6 with the cylinder deactivation feature. i'm betting less than 15% of the honda will have it , and even less will bennifit from it. um, all v6 models of the sedan will have vcm standard. you are talking about it like its optional, so just clarifying.
again, the '08's all have equal to or better than mileage than the previous generation. if you don't want cylinder de-activation, then just get one without (i4). you are still getting mileage as good or better than previous. the i4's are the majority of honda sold so you are correct that most people will not get the vcm. those who buy the v6 probably will.
why isn't the mitsubishi mitsubishi in the discussion? i mean you could get a 3.8l 258hp v6 which is more than some of the cars here. the mitsubishi has many standard features as well. i can see this as a serious contender in the market.
look at the mitsubishi's sales numbers. the reason you don't see it discussed here more is because almost no one else sees it as a serious contender in the market. it's not a bad car; it just doesn't stand out. i think the interior is particularly cheap-looking and feeling--not even competitive with cars at the low end of the price scale such as kia and hyundai. bottom line is: what is the compelling reason to buy a mitsubishi vs. one of the other cars in this class?
loren - although the ford ford is perceived as the defacto rental car, you should drive the 2008 ford (aka five hundred) with the new 3.5l four-cam v6 and 6-speed at. i just spent 5 days and 1,400 miles in one, and it's pretty impressive. a substantial number of changes from the five hundred, and the new engine does wonders for acceleration and top end. fuel economy isn't too shabby either - 28.8 mpg overall average with speeds between 75 and 80 on the freeways - and, that mpg includes the driving in various cities while on the business trip. the new "ford" is a sleeper.
what about the volkswagen volkswagen? it has good sales numbers, it meets or in many cases exceeds the competitors. even in price by just a bit. but, it is even more technologically advanced than the others and offers all wheel drive like few of the others.
reliability? not sure the engines are new technology or not. ask about how they are to be broken in. also ask volkswagen what they would consider excessive oil consumption for an engine. it is 8/10 qt. per 1,000 miles. to me that is plain wrong. now, what i do not know is if this is some standard reply in the industry. personally i expect a japan make to use no more than a quart every 5,000 to perhaps 7,500 miles. but eight tenths per thousand, i think not. how did the volkswagen do in the latest consumer reports magazine? ever price the transmission repair on one? yes, they look cool, and seem to have a nicely done interior. the german cars all seem to drive well too. if reliable, and cost is no object, it certainly is a cool midsized car. i liked the older volkswagen for looks too. as always imho, your results may vary, loren
no dealership in my area for 135 miles or more, and i live in california, which is import car capital of usa. that pretty much sums it up. a look at resale value pretty much seals it as a no so good buying decision, imho. the goodness of product is a non-issue at this point. the car looks cool, with a unique look, but oh well, it is not only off my list, it is nowhere to be found. l
how did the volkswagen do in the latest consumer reports magazine? very well. the volkswagen 2.0t is cr's top-ranked 4-cylinder family sedan, by a nose over the nissan 2.5s. the volkswagen is tied with the honda ex and nissan se for top-ranked v6 family sedans. the volkswagen v6, which btw has the distinction of being the most expensive as-tested family sedan cr has tested, is recommended by cr, and has above-average predicted reliability. the 2.0t has below-average reliability and thus is not recommended by cr. also, the 2.0t is (as tested) about $5000 more than the 2nd-ranked nissan. based on price, i'd say the volkswagen competes more with cars like the toyota, hyundai, nissan, ford/sable, buick, lucerne, and 300 than cars like the honda, nissan, toyota, hyundai etc.
the ford is a sleeper, or at least sleepy. yes, for those wanting a volvo safe car, with a pretty throne like driving position, at a ford price, yeah, go for it. not my cup o' tea though. i was referring to the real ford, and not the renamed fivehundred. what a stupid move, imho, to give a new car the name of one which faded into rental car land. it is just all too sad. take a pretty solid car, under power it when introduced, make it perhaps a bit too plain, though i wouldn't say ugly, give her a name, then yank the name off in a year or two -- oh dear-dear. new engine, and some bling-bling chrome, with a bull name, will do the trick? hey, i am not paid the big bucks, so perhaps the ceo is on to some very large plan here to save fivehundred project. it would be sad to see it fail if it is a good car. i had a pt with the high seat position. good around town, but nothing i liked for the open roads / country roads twisty driving. the car looks solid though and as a vacation transporter, it looks like it would be comfortable. i can see why some may like the car, and the value is there too! l
well then the plan would be to get the v6 and keep a good warranty on hand, or around $5k come tranny replacement time. good to know the v6 is reliable. that would be the one to shoot for. avoid the i4 engines, i guess. how about the electrical? all the gremlins leave the car? if all is well with the v6 models, it could be a choice for a german fwd for less than audi pricing. is it better than an nissan, which i assume took on the looks from volkswagen as they look similar to me? l
wouldn't it be even more stupid for ford to take a name with 80% recognition and millions of satisfied owners and stick it on a shelf while carrying on with a name that only has 30% recognition and a history of only average sales volume? let's revisit the sales numbers in a few months and see who's right.
i guess we can't talk about the 2008 honda in this forum anymore since it's no longer a midsize sedan. oh darn......
actually, the host has already prevented it from being added to the mainstream large sedans discussion. the hyundai is full size, but is competitive with midsizers, as is the honda.
while all mid-size sedan owners would like to think that their transportation vehicles are "sporty" or "luxurious," the truth is that they are "moving appliances," not unlike a fine washing machine or nifty clothes dryer. sorry, but i could not disagree more. i don't have any particular affection for my drier, stove, or microwave. yeah they keep me fed and leaving my clothes smelling like an irish spring morning (whatever that is...), but if they were to get dirty, dented, or even if they would break, i don't think i'd give a rip. but a car is so much more than these appliances... there is something visceral about how a car accelerates, corners and moves. for me, driving is almost therapy... it lets me forget about all the other things that may be happening and for that moment when i commit to taking that corner rated for 20 mph at 45 mph, there is faith, exhilaration, maybe even a little doubt, but my mind is focused on the car, on every little twitch, the tension of the steering wheel, remembering how much force my backside is being forced into the seat bolsters, and making sure that i know where the brake pedal is... just in case. then i hit the apex, the tires are screeching, my heart is racing, but the car is still in my control... a small smile starts to appear on my face and all in the world is glorious! i take a deep breath and think, "i love this car! i am soooo lucky to have made this choice!" never in a million years would i ever get the same emotions and level of satisfaction from a clothes washer. yeah, it is still a way to get from point a to b, but if that's all it was, i'd get a toyota. but cars mean more to me than that, especially when it comes down to my car. it's an expression, an amusement ride, my therapist, my tour guide, my hobby, my addiction, my means to an end... there's a reason i, and dare i say "we", spend a good part of our day reading, writing, and even arguing about cars and not about refrigerators: we use appliances because we have to, and yes, in my current condition i have to drive my car, but i also do it because i like to.
and now the question becomes: what defines fun? in my opinion there is a fine line between having "fun" while driving and reckless driving. are those who pass me on a curve in the mountains having fun? do they do so because their car can corner better than mine at speed? do those who blow by me at 100 mph on a curvy 2 lane do that while having fun (a chevrolet did just that not too long ago)? i like my "fun" every now and then but like most people i just go back to using my "appliance" like it was intended to be used 99% of the time. fun can be good for the soul...but hard on the wallet if you get caught!!
actually, the host has already prevented it from being added to the mainstream large sedans discussion. main entry: tongue-in-cheek function: adjective : characterized by insincerity, irony, or whimsical exaggeration
what defines fun? in my opinion there is a fine line between having "fun" while driving and reckless driving. not if it's done right. there are plenty of opportunities to have "fun" without even being close to breaking the law. it's all in how you look at it. zzzoom is right. all of us spend a fair amount of time reading, talking, and debating about cars, more than the average joe (and much more than my wife!) that's why we're passionate about our cars, because they're much more than just "moving appliances" to us. i'm proud of that, and you should be as well. if not, i don't think this board is right for you. just because the majority of us drives midsize sedans, doesn't mean that we can't enjoy what (and how) we drive. i'd love to have a two-door, two-seat supercar, but it's not practical for me and my life. why can't we have our cake and eat it too?
also ask volkswagen what they would consider excessive oil consumption for an engine. it is 8/10 qt. per 1,000 miles. to me that is plain wrong. now, what i do not know is if this is some standard reply in the industry. yes, the typical industry standard is that up to 1 quart per 1000 miles is okay. so this is not a volkswagen thing. our volkswagen has not used a detectible amount in 20,000+ miles. i think the actual reliability differences are a lot less than many think. when my wife bought the brand new model volkswagen in 2005, a no deductible extended warranty to 7 years/100,000 miles was about $1500. for an honda, the exact same warranty from the same source (our credit union) would have cost about $1000. volkswagen's are ususally highly rated by cr in terms of quality and drivability. they only complain about the reliability, based on data from their flawed survey.
volkswagen's are ususally highly rated by cr in terms of quality and drivability. they only complain about the reliability, based on data from their flawed survey. i'm no fan of cr by any means, but volkswagen reliability (or lack of) goes beyond their surveys. ask the dozen or so people i know that have owned a volkswagen over the past decade, with their flawed electrical systems (constantly burning out bulbs, faulty door locks/alarm system, windshield wipers, dash gauges, etc.), transmissions (both manual and auto) failing after 25k-30k miles, faulty ecms, faulty turbos on the tdis, etc. their lack of reliability is no isolated incident.
i haven't driven one but from what i have read the new ford is a much better car than the five hunderd. with the new engine ford fixed the major "flaw" in the five hundred. since everyone knew that the engine in the five hundred was grossly inadequate from the onset, why did ford even release the five hundred with that engine?
yeah, smart guy, i picked up on that. :p i wrote what i did for the many people that may pop in to read, and then try to look for the honda in the full-size room, since the host said we get a lot of reader traffic as opposed to a very small fraction of those readers that post (a lot of people may likely be first timers).
fun can be good for the soul...but hard on the wallet if you get caught!! you don't have to be reckless to have fun. i guess i'm lucky i'm not the drag racer type since that kind of driving is much more likely to result in tickets. and before i decide to take a corner at "fun" speeds, i always make sure i can see far enough ahead to make sure that there aren't any surprises in front of me. if there are things in the way where it's difficult to see, it's not worth the risk.
from what i've heard, the 3.5l simply wasn't ready. after having driven both, and lived with the 3.5l for the 1,400 mile trip, i can assure you the 3.5l has some serious "grunt," and it's quiet too, not thrashy. i drove about 15% in the honda, and 85% on interstates, with a 28.8mpg average. and, in response to loren's post, on twisty two lane roads in mississippi and alabama, it wasn't too bad either - no honda mind you, but equal to or better than the toyota se i last rented. also, i prefer the upright seating position akin to a saab, volvo, or many european cars, compared to the "legs out" position of other cars. after miles and miles of interstate driving, i'm still comfortable, unlike when i'm driving a car without that seating position. in some respects, the five hundred/new ford is a more affordable volvo anyway, since it's built on the volvo volvo platform - not a bad thing.
i am old enough to have had some of the premier ( mostly mopar 383's @ 440's with one 340 thrown in and an occasional 390/406 ford) muscle cars of the 60's and early 70's with my last being a 1970 chevelle ss 396. fun then was defined as street drag racing late at night. well i guess that still goes on doesn't it? as i said i too like my fun but now drive sedately most of the time as i would bet 99% of the owners of these (toyota..honda...hyundai etc.) do. i was thinking a z-06 chevrolet would be nice though.
actually, the new ford is built on the d3 platform which is a modified version of the previous gen volvo platform. and the 3.5l engine was at least 2 years later than anticipated so they would have had to postpone the five hundred, freestyle and montego for 2 years if they waited for the engine. the 3.0l was simply a stopgap measure. same is true for the lincoln - it was supposed to debut as the lincoln with the 3.5l but they needed something for lincoln/mercury dealers to sell last year after they killed the ls.
i'm no fan of cr by any means, but volkswagen reliability (or lack of) goes beyond their surveys. well, what i said was differences are less than many think and that cr only dislikes volkswagen based on reliability issues. if i happened to like the volkswagen best amongst the midsize cars, reliability fears would not keep me from buying. most (but not all) cars these days are reliable enough that it is a non-issue for me.
excellent post! bravo! i feel the exact same way; and i couldn't have said it better myself. driving my car is totally a therapeutic and rewarding experience. there aren't forums about refrigerator enthusiasts. but, car/driving enthusiasts? too many to mention. it's for a reason.
yeah but even an enthusiast doesn't drive in a what?...yeah, an enthusiastic manner 100% of the time. i absolutely love cars and everything about them and as i noted in my o.p. about what defines an appliance i do care that my car is reasonably quick, quiet, comfortable, fuel efficient, handles well etc. etc. but i believe most who insist a mazda 6, for instance, is so "head and shoulders" above the rest in all performance categories that a part-time enthusiast couldn't be happy without one are deluding themselves (well maybe deluding is too strong a word but for a lack of a better one for now i'll let it stand). most of us only drive at less than 50% of the capability of most modern cars in this class anyhow. a v-6 hyundai for instance is fast enough (as fast as or faster than 90% here) gets similar fuel economy, is as quiet as any here, and handles and stops as well also so it is the appliance of choice for thousands ($$$ for thousands less $$$). it becomes nit-picking trying to define what is an enthusiasts sedan. i can scare the hell out of myself in an honda as easily as in a toyota..just before i drop back down into a sedate cruise for the remainder of my trip. nah, those who say they drive in such a manner as to demand a more "responsive" car all the time are kidding themselves.
one of my all-time favorite things to do, ever, is to drag race a cop. i'm not kidding, it is hilarious. almost every car being discussed here can really hand it to a crown vic off the line. i love it when one is next to me at a red light and after it turns green, i hear that ford v8 start to rumble. i'll scoot as fast as i possibly can up to the speed limit, wasting the cop car in the process, and then cruise along. every single time i have tried this, without fail, the cop leaves it floored and absolutely blasts past me at 15-20 mph over the limit. if we get caught again at the next light, we just repeat. every cop has repeated. don't peel tires, just floor it to the speed limit. nothing illegal about that. and it is so much fun.
well i have heard plenty of complaints about the i4 engines though and electrical problems. i remain cautious of the brand. the v6 seems better. the i5 engine is an old audi, by any chance ??? l
well i have heard plenty of complaints about the i4 engines though and electrical problems. the i4 engines are great. just add diesel fuel and change the timing belt at recommended interval and they go forever.
but i believe most who insist a mazda 6, for instance, is so "head and shoulders" above the rest in all performance categories that a part-time enthusiast couldn't be happy without one are deluding themselves i second that! none of these cars are considered appliances, by the people who drive them. and none of these cars are true sports cars either.
no i meant the i4 gas engines, with adding a quart of oil every 1,000 miles. i know they have an i5 now. wonder about both of those two engines though for reliability. if, that is if they are reliable, the volkswagen volkswagen, volkswagen and the bug may be a good by. l
the i5 is only in the volkswagen, not in the midsize volkswagen. volkswagen base engine is and has been a turbo 4. we have had no problems with our i5, but at 21,000 miles or so that does not mean a whole lot...but it certainly is not burning oil. my kid, just this week, bought a '96 volkswagen i4 with just about 100k mi. i guess we'll be seeing if that one uses any oil...
...i believe most who insist a mazda 6, for instance, is so "head and shoulders" above the rest in all performance categories that a part-time enthusiast couldn't be happy without one are deluding themselves...nah, those who say they drive in such a manner as to demand a more "responsive" car all the time are kidding themselves. speak for yourself. yes, i don't drive at full bore 100% of the time, nor do i participate in scca events, but i'll buy a bicycle before settling for a softly-sprung land yacht because it "supposedly" suits the majority of my driving. and yes, there's a large difference between the way my 6 reacts when accelerating on a highway on-ramp (taut, composed) compared to a toyota and honda (lots of body roll and lean). this, among lots of other day-to-day situations, make all the difference to me.
and none of these cars are true sports cars either. owners of the speed6 or subaru gt might want to argue with you about that. i know they aren't in the list of cars compared here but their prices are right in line with the v6 models of the two best sellers here and will put everything else to shame any day of the week and still serve as fully competent daily drivers.
"and yes, there's a large difference between the way my 6 reacts when accelerating on a highway on-ramp (taut, composed) compared to a toyota and honda (lots of body roll and lean). this, among lots of other day-to-day situations, make all the difference to me." do you mean that the honda and toyota react in a similar manner with regard to body roll and lean? and that the honda is a land yatch compared to a 6?
"owners of the speed6 or subaru gt might want to argue with you about that. i know they aren't in the list of cars compared here but their prices are right in line with the v6 models of the two best sellers here and will put everything else to shame any day of the week and still serve as fully competent daily drivers" well, there is something missing here, because both these cars a collosal flops (which i am puzzled about, especially for the speed6, which seems to be a very competent car). one would tend to think they would have a niche market, but clearly that's not happened. also, these are not cheap cars, the reason one can buy them cheap is because the major discounts on them (which is a good thing for someone really wanting one of these). i am not saying that these are not good cars, but maybe drivers preffered (at least in case of the speed6) the lighter v6 6, compared to the awd speed6? never know how the market is going to react.
when i clearly stated "i believe" i was speaking for myself. further i really don't think any car in this class really qualifies as a "land yacht" and i have yet to be flung off the road by anything i have driven in this class. you are participating in the "nit-picking" contest i spoke of. ok if a mazda 6 is the only thing that will satisfy your perhaps overinflated need for being "one with the road" then have at it but don't presume to call everything else a "land yacht"..it isn't the only thing that won't fall on its side in a corner.
and yes, there's a large difference between the way my 6 reacts when accelerating on a highway on-ramp (taut, composed) compared to a toyota and honda (lots of body roll and lean). lol, yeah right... i have no argument about the 6 is the king of performance in the midsizer segment but it's not like it is in another class all by itself. the difference between the 6 and honda is small but noticeable when push hard. toyota se can hold its own against any car in this class as well. okay, so the regular toyota is a yacht but it's mission is to satisfy a bigger crowd than the 6. oh, by the way, one of the difference between the v6 mazda, honda v6 and toyota v6 on a highway on-ramp is that the 6 is get outrun by the other 2. :p
another big difference between the mazda, honda, and toyota is that right now i (and anyone else) can walk into my local mazda dealer and get a very well equipped 6 mt for a bit over $16k + t&l with no haggling. what kind of honda or toyota would you get for that price? would it have power seat, 17" alloys, cd changer, ground effects, etc.? plus the handling and great looks of a mazda?
the mazda has been going at very low prices for a long time; and it is a tough value to beat (especially now with a new gen coming out). they never did sell well; so mazda has had to dole out discounts by the dozen to get people to buy them, unlike the mazda. maybe the next gen 6 will change this, since it is supposed to be a larger car to cater to american tastes. btw, the year end clearance at honda has been great as well; i have seen fairly low prices for the honda as its ends it current cycle. however, these wouldn't comapre with mazda prices.
also, these are not cheap cars, the reason one can buy them cheap is because the major discounts on them that's right, and i pointed that out. they do sticker, well equipped, somewhere around $30k which is also roughly the starting price for the sportiest toyota and next honda. i say that for the latter because all reviews of it so far say the ex v6 will start at $30k. if your intentions are sporting then you are much better off with a speed6 or subaru gt imo. those two are true sports cars and fall in this class.
oh, by the way, one of the difference between the v6 mazda, honda v6 and toyota v6 on a highway on-ramp is that the 6 is get outrun by the other 2. if the 6 in question has an mtx then it will stay right with them particularly if the ramp has a curve in it which most do. at least around here anyway.
"if the 6 in question has an mtx then it will stay right with them particularly if the ramp has a curve in it which most do. at least around here anyway. " not really, is the honda has mt as well. will still pull away.
funny you should mention low prices on honda. the honda dealerships in my town seem to have an unwritten (since written would be against the law) agreement not to publish purchase prices, just lease prices. and the lease deal on the honda chrysler right now is worse than it was earlier in the year: still $199/month but nearly $3000 up front. the up-front money is much higher than it was earlier this year. in fact, earlier in the year the deal was $199/mo. for a v6! that seems odd to be given honda must be trying to close out the honda before the new models roll in. personally i like the size of the current mazda and don't like the trend of making mid-sized cars larger (on the outside). the new honda is 194" for gosh sakes! that's about 6" less than the huge grand caravan i had. and it was a cumbersome beast to park. other automakers seem to be able to fit mid-sized space (even large-car space) into a smaller package. maybe honda should add a large sedan ala toyota to its lineup so it can let the honda play the role of mid-sized family sedan and keep it a decent size.
the hyundai is 192.7, toyota 197.2, and amanti 196.9 inches long. if this keeps up, the honda will be clearly in the next size up. not good for those that like mid-sized cars.
but good for those who are looking for a bigger honda sedan.
length of a car does not exactly measure usable space - interior volume, trunk space. the perfect example is, despite the hyundai being shorter than the toyota, the interior volume and trunk space is the same between the two. on by the way, the honda (w/o sunroof only per louiswei) is a large car per epa. it's the second car to the hyundai (w/ or w/o sunroof) classified as a large car by epa, two and half years later. which car will be next? probably not the mazda.
you'd think they'd just make a larger car under a different name. everybody else does.
the 3 series is a perfect example of a car that has grown in length and girth over the years. now bmw is introducing the 1 series, which probably is as small as the original 2002.
again, not if there's a curve involved. once they get out on the highway it's anyone's game because the published numbers usually don't tell us gearing. full throttle on a straight away, yes the honda will most likely pull away but onramps aren't all like that now are they? either way i'm beating both of them by a lot even with my wife and two kids in the cabin. curves, no curves, whatever.
something like mcdonald's does with super sizing that meal. call the new larger honda the honda ss or super sized. we fit larger beltlines! i got the '07, and i am thinking it to be fairly large as is. oh well, make no difference to me. l
honda already brought the fit over here because the honda is now the size of the original honda (or bigger?). so the next logical step is to introduce a new mid-sized car for 2013, slotted between the honda and honda, at which time the honda will be about the size of the crown vic. or maybe by then the honda will be big enough to take over as honda's mid-sized car.
"according" to a usa today story, only the chrysler trim (without sunroof) has enough interior volume to qualify as a large car per epa measurements, just making it with no room to spare. i don't know why the others wouldn't, but that's what the story said.
the sunroof reduces headroom; less headroom = less cubic feet.
grad: i was referring to the part that said only the chrysler trim qualilfies as "large".
but the difference is, there is demand for it. as us americans get fatter, we wan't more food. but with cars, the trend is different. less people getting married, waiting longer (if ever) to have kids, and having less of them. more and more people are buying smaller cars, not bigger. i'm not saying honda can't pull it off, if anybody can it's probably them. but seems like a gutsy thing to do with their #1 vehicle
length of a car does not exactly measure usable space - interior volume, trunk space. interior volume is not always the best measure either. somewhat lower roofline reduces interior volume, but does not change a mid-size to a compact no matter what epa thinks. (chevrolet is a mid-size and pontiac is a compact per epa.) adding a sunroof also does not convert a large car to a midsize. while interior space is important, exterior dimensions, wheelbase. and weight are also important factors in classifying cars as these affect how it drives. epa may think the hyundai and the crown vic are in the same size class, personally i think the 2 foot difference in length puts them in different classes. of course, actually epa also recognizes this which is why they have market class which "groups together cars that are similar from the car buyer's perspective" , in addition to the official epa size classification based on interior volume. the "market class" sensibly puts the hyundai in the "family sedan" category and the crown vic in the "large sedan" category. http://www.fueleconomy.gov/feg/byclass.htm
doesn't seem like growing larger has hurt toyota sales any (07vs06), so why would it hurt honda sales?
cause the toyota hasn't grown that large, they still keep the toyota bigger to fill that spot. i'm not saying it won't work, just seems to be moving in the opposite direction of where the market is going. mid size sales have been dropping for a long time now. i seem to remember reading somewhere that over the last 10 years or so, they're down about a million units. just look at the trend. the honda sales peaked in 2001-2002. the honda, nissan, and honda (i know its a suv/cuv, but it is the small version) are way up. same way with toyota. their fastest growing cars are the toyota, yarris, carolla. nissan and gm are an exception, but the nissan is selling as fast as they can make them, and the nissan was made smaller this time arround. and if the nissan were a better car, it might be cutting into nissan sales. same with gm. i think they only reason the chevrolet does as well as it does is because the chevrolet and chevrolet are such poor choices. as said before, it may work. honda is usually very good at guessing the market. just seems like a big risk to take with the #2 selling car in the country.
and only the chrysler and chrysler-p models are full size, the ex is still a midsize because of a lack of sunroofs. i also read that ex models (honda, exv6 and exlv6 models) will make up over 50 percent of sales this time.
grad: i was referring to the part that said only the chrysler trim qualilfies as "large". that's what he was trying to say. the chrysler does not have a sunroof but the ex does. the sunroof takes away cubic inches from the interior because the height of the car stays the same but the inside of the ceiling is lower to allow for the sliding mechanism. that reduction in cubic inches is enough to reduce the overall volume back to midsize in the ex.
tallman beat me to it. post 4316 is exactly what i was talking about.
some graphics from temple of vtec: headroom of 2007 (front/rear): 40.4 / 38.5 legroom of 2007 (f/r): 42.6 / 36.8 looks like the only real gain in the 2008 in interior dimensions is driver's headroom which gains an inch. legroom actually decreases in the back...
maybe the reason growing in size didn't hurt the 2007 toyota is because it's the same length as the previous generation, yet with more interior room--a very intelligent use of space. whereas the honda grew nearly 6-1/2" in length from 2007 to 2008 and is now five inches longer than the toyota (and also the hyundai, although the hyundai actually has more interior room than the honda).
thanks. i didn't know the honda does not offer a sunroof across the board in the honda. so, it still seems like the honda shouldn't be considered "large" by edmunds if so many honda sales are for trims above chrysler.
look back on the previous page of this thread, if you would, and tell me you see 6-1/2". i see 3" longer and 1" wider, and 1" taller. not a huge difference, imo. it seems bigger is better (to you) when it's the hyundai, but no so for the honda. what's up with that?
hyundai: 188.9 toyota: 189.2 honda: 194.1 i should have used a calculator the first time--it's actually almost 5 -1/2", not 6-1/2". but if you see only 3", i guess you need glasses? bigger is better when it doesn't make the car a cumbersome size. the toyota and hyundai manage to house roomy interiors with less length. actually, the toyota and hyundai are longer than i like/need. i prefer cars like the hyundai and nissan that are roomy inside (mid-sized car volume) but compact outside--in this case nearly a foot and a half shorter than the honda. the hyundai puts more interior volume than the '07 honda ex into 177 inches. i suppose some folks like big (long) cars, but i don't see the benefit unless it translates into more useable room. parking spaces seem to be getting smaller, and i'm not accumulating less stuff in my garage every year.
whereas the honda grew nearly 6-1/2" in length from 2007 to 2008 i'm not going crazy, you did say the 08 honda was 6-1/2" larger than the 07 honda was (not the toyota and hyundai) :p . when it has grown only 3". these are your own words. and even though the 08 honda is 5-1/2" longer than the hyundai or toyota, i don't see that making a big difference.
yes, i looked up the number for the 2007 honda but didn't notice it was for the coupe. thanks for the correction. if 5-1/2" is not a big difference for you, that's great. i know that parking my 200" long van in my garage was a real squeeze sometimes. the honda is 6" shorter, but i have more stuff in my garage now than i did when i owned the van. if i have choice between a "mid-sized sedan" that's 194" or one that's 177", i prefer the shorter, easier to park car. or if i have a choice between two sedans that have about the same interior space, i prefer the one that's almost half a foot shorter. i can't wait for the gen 9 honda--will probably give my old grand caravan a run for its money in length. :sick: maybe it will have footrests in back though.
i think your have to sit in the car to evaluate the interior roominess. roominess is function of interior ergonomics not of cubic feet. knowing honda they probably made very good use of interior layout without compromising the other fine qualities of the car. of course, what not "compromising is", will be subject to interpertation.
i agree, it's not just cubic feet for interior room. but length is length--no need to try a "garage door test" to evaluate that.
true, but to me the length is inconsequential, unless i was talking about a mini cooper. in a so called mid-sized family sedan i want roominess without being barge-like.
this review was generally positive, but did mention that the base model's interior materials seemed inferior. an interesting fact pointed out in their review is that the first generation honda had a 93 inch wheel base, which is shorter than the current honda fit.
did anyone read this? this review wasn't generally positive, it was all positive. http://www.edmunds.com/insideline/do/drives/firstdrives/articleid=58887
did anyone read this? this review wasn't generally positive, it was all positive. http://www.edmunds.com/insideline/do/drives/firstdrives/articleid=58887 it could easily be titled, "honda strikes a chord." still haven't figured out why honda enlarged the dimensions to the point where it's no longer a mid-size sedan.
yes, i read it--and posted it here--five days ago. backy, "midsize sedans 2.0" #4191, 21 aug 2007 7:23 pm !keywords=allin%3amsgtext%20limit%3a.f12d514%20firstdrives maybe more people will read it now that you've posted it. so far the only negatives i've seen mentioned in reviews are lower quality interior materials on the "base" model (whatever that is--chrysler?) and some carping on size. looks like another winner for honda. it will be interesting to see how sales do at first with no incentives--that will make the '08 honda much more otd than the '07s and $5000+ more than some competitors. but there's probably a lot of honda fans who've been waiting to grab a next-gen honda.
further i really don't think any car in this class really qualifies as a "land yacht" and i have yet to be flung off the road by anything i have driven in this class. you are participating in the "nit-picking" contest i spoke of. it may be "nit-picking" to you, but when it involves over $20k of my hard-earned cash to purchase a vehicle, it's not "nit-picking" to me, or anyone else that values handling. ok if a mazda 6 is the only thing that will satisfy your perhaps overinflated need for being "one with the road" then have at it but don't presume to call everything else a "land yacht"..it isn't the only thing that won't fall on its side in a corner. if you think that my needs are "overinflated" (which is obviously your opinion), then why can't i call the others in this class "land yachts", which is clearly my opinion?
what kind of honda or toyota would you get for that price? with a v6? used.
i looked back in previous posts and didn't see it, else i wouldn't have reposted it. once the sedan is readily available the "real truth" will come out.
so the honda grew 3" longer and 1" wider, and that makes it a land yacht? so if the interior volume moves a fraction of an inch above midsize, all of a sudden it's huge. :confuse: honda has simply built the car they think americans want. are they right, or wrong? the sales numbers will tell the tale. i think it will do at least as well as the 7th gen did.
honda is probably spot-on as far as what most americans want, i.e., bigger is better (see: chevrolet). there's just some of us who don't equate sheer size with goodness, unless there's a benefit to the size other than helping the steel companies sell more of it. honda did add more interior volume for 2008, but that doesn't impress me given some of their competitors have already done that, but with more efficient packaging. but honda is smart, and it's all probably part of their plan to make the next fit compact-class, and the next honda mid-sized class. then they can introduce a car under the fit.
actually, people have been talking about that and the coupe article here: article comments - 2008 honda honda coupe and sedan first drive . everyone is welcome to drop by!
but honda is smart, no doubt about it.
honda is probably spot-on as far as what most americans want, i.e., bigger is better (see: chevrolet). there's just some of us who don't equate sheer size with goodness truth be told, i'm one of those who wants all the size i can afford (how american of me, right?) i'm 6'4" and have never found a car other than a truck that had enough legroom for me (i have long legs and short torso). my honda is a 2006, and my knees are never able to straighten out as much as i'd physically want, but that was true for any car, not just honda. i couldn't afford 15 mpg of a pickup or large suv, so the midsize mpg was the best compromise i could find. since the honda has added power, has same/better mpg, and larger interior/exterior, i wouldn't have a problem swapping mine for a new one. i think my honda's interior is classier looking though.
when the 2003 honda first came out, i thought the car looked ugly, but the look slowly growed on me and i think the 03-07 honda looks just fine. hell, i thought my wife was ugly when i married her but she is looking better everyday. same analogy can be applied to the 08 honda. for those of you who don't like the look, look at it upfront instead of the pics and you might actually like it. (thank god my wife doesn't visit edmund's forum, otherwise i would be sleeping in the doghouse tonight)
did you try the hyundai at the time you got your honda? more front leg room than the 2006 honda (43.2 vs. 42.6 inches, although the new-for-2007 hyundai has 43.5"). since the old honda fits you, the hyundai might also. so, leg room isn't necessarily a function of vehicle size. another example is the nissan. the 5-door is only 169" long, or over two feet shorter than the 2008 honda. but i found it has more stretch-out rear leg room (including lots of toe space) than the two-classes-bigger nissan, when i had the driver's seats adjusted for toyota. it felt like a limosine in back! definitely one of those "try before you buy" things.
you can find a lot of leg room in some pretty small cars. my 92 nissan nissan had gobs of legroom.
there were other factors that caused me to want a car the honda's size; including a pretty amazing power-to-economy ratio, plenty of room all-around, and a bit of a heavier car made the parents happy. i was coming from a 1996 honda (which i still drive some), so stepping into an hyundai would probably feel like i was going backwards (not a 07 of course, but the 2001-2006 model). honestly, i never set foot in an hyundai because the dated looks turned me off. lots of car for the money, but if it is a car you don't want, you've wasted your money good deal or not, right? my whole point was to say that not everyone feels that more room is bad, just like not everyone feels like a bigger car is good. to each their own. in my case, more room = better.
i agree 100% that more room is better. what i don't agree with is more length is better.
i'd be willing to add 3 inches length to my 2006 if i could get two extra inches of legroom.
round'n round it goes. ok you love your "6" good for you. i don't dislike them particularly or like them either. i am neutral but probably wouldn't consider one when buying my next new sedan. so, in the end you are correct of course..your money...your priorities...your decision. enjoy!!!!
i would not have bought a car that had inadequate legroom, in the first place. being comfortable sitting in the car is mandatory for me to consider buying. however, i understand that you have extreme leg room needs... does the 2008 honda add 2 inches of leg room?
grad, have you tried the '07 nissan? i'm 6'-3", and i can't put the seat all the way back in my wifes nissan. i can tip-toe the pedals, but thats it.
it's weird, but in all the press for the 2008 honda, all i see is mention of the extra 0.4" legroom in the back compared to 2007, and the extra width up front (and back). no mention of more legroom in front. i'd think if there were improvements there, it would be mentioned prominently, just like they did for the rear legroom increase (a whole 4/10 of an inch there!). so maybe you don't get at least 2" more legroom overall from the 3" extra length?
and in order to get the extra leg room, they had to reduce the trunk space, if i read that right.
no mention of more legroom in front. according to the spec sheets for each, front leg room for the 07 and the 08 honda are: 07: 42.6 08: 42.5
i guess i should have stated it more clearly. i am not uncomfortable in my current vehicles, a 1996 honda (compact) and a 2006 honda (midsize). would i welcome more legroom? whole heartedly. am i cramped or uncomfortable though? nah. i like the idea of having stretch out space, but i have never had a problem traveling in my honda, driving for long periods of time (10 hours at a time, only stopping for lunch/gas/pee breaks). second of all, i would welcome larger exterior size if it bought me more legroom (i don't have a need for a wider or taller car, as i have plenty of hip, head, and shoulder room in my sunroof-equipped honda as it is. the only thing that would make a good thing better in my case is legroom (i have enough to be comfortable, but more spread-out/stretch-out room never hurts at 6'4", ya know? i didn't know the actual specs on legroom, i was doing more "wishful thinking" than anything. i know i'm rambling, but car companies should put more front-seat travel in their seat tracks. i sit with the seat all the way back, and anyone under 6' has plenty of room behind me. i could go an extra inch or two and have a typical 5'4" person comfortable. i'm regularly driving my friends around (it happens when you've got a roomy car), and extra travel would be appreciated for my guy friends (my three best guy friends are 6'4" 190, 6'4" 320, and 6'3" 250) in the front seat!
ah, no wonder they don't mention the front leg room specs! although i can swear i saw multiple reviews mentioning "more front leg room" for 2008. imo that is pretty poor that in a 194" car, honda has managed to increase rear legroom by only 4/10 of an inch while decreasing front leg room and making the trunk only 14 cubic feet. in comparison, the 177" hyundai has more front leg room and about the same trunk space. i thought honda was good on intelligent packaging. maybe the honda engineering team should take some pointers from the fit team.
how its packaged may make it feel larger than it is. i know my 1996 actually has tight legroom, but it is very open and airy (moreso than my 06) so it doesn't feel too compact. i'm not making an excuse, but it may be why some reviewers may have mentioned more front-seat room - it may well seem that way.
the front seat room they commented on seems to be related to extra width--which is mentioned in the various press releases and articles. maybe a testament to the ever-increasing girth of americans. :sick:
doesn't help me much then. i'm just tall (6'4", 190). good thing i've got an 06; i plan to keep it a long time. maybe my 2013 the honda will be as big as an old honda (1998-2006) and i'll just get one of those. it's already as roomy as my 1996.
or maybe by 2013 you'll take a serious look at what other auto makers are offering then. who knows what will be available 6 years from now?
if thegraduate is so happy with his 2 honda why would he consider anything else but honda? of course, unless if his criteria changes and honda no longer offers anything that suits his needs... if i am happy with my current car i'll be more than likely to consider the same brand again over any others. it's human nature, stick with what works.
good thing for honda and toyota that lots of gm, ford, and chrysler owners didn't follow that advice starting in the '70s.
louiswei is right. i really did look at other automakers before deciding on my 2006; for me, honda has two major things in their pocket - interior quality and ride/handling balance. the power/economy ratio was an extra bonus. if honda starts slacking on one of these major points (major to me) i'll look much harder elsewhere. for now, having a dealer close by (walking distance, actually), and honda doing nothing but give me good service (referring to both vehicles and personnel), i don't have a reason not to give them my loyalty. of course i'll look at other makes each time, but i'm starting with a well-earned honda bias.
good thing for honda and toyota that lots of gm, ford, and chrysler owners didn't follow that advice starting in the '70s. because they were not satisfied owning gm, ford, or chrysler cars. honda owners are usually satisfied with what they have, and will buy another one when the time comes. only problem for honda is, i keep my cars a long time, so they have to wait a while for this repeat customer.
looks like honda's done fine on the ride/handling balance for the '08 honda, but the interior quality could be another story, based on the comment re the quality (or lack thereof) of the base trim's interior. but the higher-end trims seem to have impressive quality. that's too bad if true; one of the great things about getting the honda dx, vp, or chrysler in the past is that you were getting basically the same car, interior and all, as in the higher trims (no leather or fancy doo-dads, but the materials were the same). looks like some de-contenting occuring to keep the price reasonable. i guess i am a dis-loyal car buyer. i buy whatever fits my needs best at the time, for the lowest price. if that's a honda, i'll gladly buy a honda such as the honda. but i'm not going to give honda or any other manufacturer brownie points because one or more of their cars worked for me in the past. i don't see honda offering me any financial incentive to be loyal to them--a loyalty rebate, for example. so let the best car, at the best price, win my business.
well i guess my honda honda v6 may last a good long time, though i am less than impressed with a couple of noises. first the engine got noisy, as in a rubbing sort of sound to the belts after about a couple thousand miles on her. had it in twice to be repaired. makes the same sound. ask the dealership about it again during the last oil change, and the mechanic said it sounds normal. well it may for a 1970's american v6, but certainly not by japan, or honda standards. i may try another dealership. the other noise, which is only heard when things are really quiet, is the right fender which makes a few ticks or creaks sounds when turning the car. you only hear that in a parking lot or entering a driveway. they repositioned the fender. it makes the same sound. the car performs 100% on the road for handling and toyota. the gas mileage is good. will i buy another one, not sure. the noise thing gives me a little pause. will see how the car rates over time. feature wise, i like everything except auto-chevrolet down and up windows, which drive me crazy. oh add the re-locking of doors after you hit the open in about 30 seconds - kinda crazy thing. now the auto opening of windows before entry is pretty neat idea to cool the car down and is a real plus. being a person which has owned lots of different cars, some being japanese, i am kinda tough on rating my car, so at the present time, i am giving it an 85 to 90% due to engine and fender noises. i did have an independent repairman say he thought the engine sounded ok, but then again, he may have listened to lots of rock n' roll over the years, at volume = full. loren
that's too bad if true; one of the great things about getting the honda dx, vp, or chrysler in the past is that you were getting basically the same car, interior and all, as in the higher trims (no leather or fancy doo-dads, but the materials were the same). looks like some de-contenting occuring to keep the price reasonable. i know in 92 the interior seat and trim fabric was different from chrysler to ex. it was the same color, but not the same quality material. i think the floor mats were stronger in the ex also.
what about those saying the new honda is much the size of the old honda and thus for 2008 it may be time to consider a downsizing? is the honda large enough? i have the '07 honda, and see absolutely no need for it to be larger, as it is slightly larger than the cadillac cts right now. i think i am drawing the line at this size now. oh what do i know, when i had a miata, i also had "my bigger car", the toyota. i think the '98 toyota was a bit too small. actually the miata is like getting into a glove, but then again, it is a sports car -- different game ya know. as a side note, the new miata could have been made with a little more hip room and the seats got more narrow than the previous models, which was in my mind a big mistake, in a super-sized america. l
its not so much loyalty as peace of mind. with honda i feel like i know what i am getting. if i felt differently after sitting in and driving the vehicle, i wouldn't be so quick to buy it. i can get a pontiac about a car pretty early on (how the doors close, how it handles, how the controls feel).
i guess the tech was too lazy to figure out what was causing the noise. the loudest sounds i hear from my v6 are the fuel injectors clicking, and that's not very loud.
i was not impressed with the new toyota interior. i would think honda would not make the same mistake as toyota after seeing the response from the press and public. it is far from the worst, but not up to japan standards. what's up with fake silver aluminum, which looks like a cheap china radio boom box? i don't know what you think, but to me plastic aluminum ranks right up there with what is the worst for interiors. l
a miata! isn't that a "chick car"? just kidding. what's up with fake silver aluminum, which looks like a cheap china radio boom box? i here you. the harmon kardon receiver and cassette deck i had back in 84 was that color. it's been out of style for a while now, i think.
they have replaced the belt and wheels assembly thing. seems to be louder once warmed and after using air conditioning. there is an another dealership to try and another repair shop which specializes in honda to have look at it. so your honda makes no loud belt noise which can be heard without the hood open??? l
from my ownership experiences, i know what i think i'm getting with a honda, but also a toyota, mazda, nissan, hyundai, chrysler, mitsubishi, and ford. (been too long since i owned a gm car.) but times change, cars change. as you implied, it depends on what the car is like now , and i will add how it compares to others, and at what cost. i am sure the new honda is a fantastic family sedan, maybe the best in the class right now. but having something that others consider "best in class" ceased to be important to me a long time ago, if i have to pay a lot extra to have it.
so your honda makes no loud belt noise which can be heard without the hood open??? i can barely hear anything without the hood open. when it's open injectors, are the dominant sound. even the clicking seems to quiet down after a few minutes.
well if pure sales were a guide (and yes, including rentals), the toyota would be seen as "best-in-class" by most people's standards (it was best in class to them because they bought it!). i completely disagreed; it was too soft, too numb, and too dull for me to consider it for very long. you and i likely have a very different idea of best in class; basically, i agree with you though. buying because others feel a car is "best-in-class" is like buying pants because they fit on someone else. different people have different standards (some prefer big, some prefer small; some prefer soft, some prefer firm; etc...) in that sense, we compeltely agree backy. whoulda thunk it? the slant h guy and the straight h guy can get along! :shades:
ah, that's the deal. honda is giving good discounts on the '07 model honda, and thus i got mine for less than the saturn xr. and this is months ago. i bet another grand is taken off the price now. the saturn saturn xr was fun to drive and all, but the price was higher -- they did not deal with me on the trade-in allowance. net price out the door was gonna be a lot more with the saturn. i got the best price at the second honda dealership for a quote. the first one was crazy on the trade-in, while the second one got it right. and then i got another $1,500 off on the car. anyway, the honda prices are low -- find the right dealership. if a person like the cvt, the nissan looks kinda interesting. i dislike the stange foot brake location though and the cvt. l
oh no- not the chick car thing. try to convince people the miata is a track car compared to the bmwz3, slk, solstice or sky, and many just don't understand. and yes, it makes for a good little secretary or commuter car too. for handling, i am thinking miata again, maybe the second gen, or bimmer for a little more room, nice engine and roll bars and aggressive look the bmw z3 is good, but can not match handling. the solstice has the looks, but no roll bar - not a place to put a roll bar, and it is kinda a bathtub feel to the driving position with those too tall doors. ok back to mid-sized cars. i guess something positive can be said for most all of these cars in this class. they all have something for someone. i may be what is the most important elements to an individual nowadays, more so than the old this is good car, and that one is a bad car, which did make life more simple for resale, we all know the leaders, so debate there is useless. if resale doesn't matter, the rest is all in what ya see a car as. - loren
for resale, we all know the leaders, so debate there is useless. huh? resale is very important to the guy that likes a new car every 3 years or less - like me. i like to buy cars somewhat under my wearwithall but dump 'em every 2-3 years, so resale value keeps me from having to hyundai up much money when i sign for the next one. i rarely lease. after 6+ years or so resale values become moot (except for maybe trucks and some boutique type cars)
in a way, yeah, in 6 years resale value is less important. if you happen to own a toyota or honda though, you may be pleasantly surprised at the retained value even in 10 years, with higher miles. they will still buy them, at least in ca. with high miles and many years. much harder to sell an old domestic. i still think domestics make a good used car buy, or even a new car buy, if it is something special you really are after, and plan to keep it awhile. old rule with me was japan new, domestics used. problem is the rule was not old enough, and i bought a lot of new domestic cars which did not sell well. i must say the ford was a good enough trade-in value. mustangs use to do well -- perhaps still do. l
resale is very important to the guy that likes a new car every 3 years or less - like me. i like to buy cars somewhat under my wearwithall but dump 'em every 2-3 years, so resale value keeps me from having to hyundai up much money when i sign for the next one. i rarely lease. seems to me you are loosing a lot of $$$ on depreciation (on any car) in the first 3 years, and getting a car that hasn't really improved that much over the 3 year old model.
i hardly ever sell a car. i think of the 13 cars i've owned only 3 have been re-sold and these were all sold for a few hundred bucks. so resale value has been of little concern for me. it took me about 18 mo. of off and on shopping and research to buy my last car. so if i were to trade every 2-3 years, i'd probably be perpetually working on buying/selling cars. i have never been able to bring myself to buy used, unless it was a cheap car. most i ever paid for a used car was $3800 in dec. 2000. buying a 1-3 year old car and supposedly saving a lot on depreciation sounds good on paper, but i have never gotten the impression that it would work that well in reality...at least for me. saving in the neighborhood of $4000 to get a car with maybe 20,000-30,000 miles on it, is not enough compensation for going with a used car for me. the idea of buying a higher priced used car from a private seller makes me nervous.
where do you park all the cars? drive a different old car each day? as for used, i would say if bought for 1/2 the original cost, or less, is the way to go for used. american cars are usually the best deals in used. i did find an excellent 6 year old miata some years back. it was about a third the current miata price, and had 36k miles on it. sometimes japan and german good buys can be found. l
i didn't say i had kept all those cars from my 30 years of car ownership, just that they were not sold. some were junked, some were donated, a couple were given to kids.
i guess we will find out about the "super honda resale value" in a few years, i don't see myself in the '07 honda ex for more than 3 or 5 years if i can help it; i am hoping by then i can get something more fun. the old honda (1993/145k)seems to be about 2k on craigslist around here. we will see how that goes.
seems to me you are loosing a lot of $$$ on depreciation (on any car) in the first 3 years, and getting a car that hasn't really improved that much over the 3 year old model. last 2 vehicles - a 2000 toyota and a 2002 honda. bought 'em for a great price, no money down, 5 year financing, traded 'em in and got the payoff as trade-in value - no upsidedownness carried to the next vehicle. my current ride is a tl. bought it for less than what edmunds suggested, no money down, 5 year financing (787 fico score). and i'm not buying the same model car each time. i like to try 'em all. waiting to see the hundye hyundai. hopefully that car won't upset my pattern.
wouldn't lease payments be lower than the 5 year finance payments? it's your $$$, so if you really want the freedom to sell/trade whenever the urge strikes (even if it's less than 3 years) it's the only option.
i don't see honda offering me any financial incentive to be loyal to them--a loyalty rebate, for example. so let the best car, at the best price, win my business. it's an unwritten rebate issued as knowing and having peace of mind that your car will never break down or require tow truck services for over 200,000 to 300,000 miles with proper maintenance. the finanicial incentive is that you won't have to spend money on mechanics and replacement parts (i must have spent thousands on mopar replacement parts alone). so in order to have your viewpoint and outlook, you have to ignore decades of reliability data. :surprise:
the car performs 100% on the road for handling and toyota. the gas mileage is good. will i buy another one, not sure. the noise thing gives me a little pause. will see how the car rates over time. blame those "rookies" in ohio........ they will never be as good or as talented as the honda workers in japan, but in time (maybe another 5 years) they will get really good. a lot of the workers in japan have been assembling honda's for decades, or even their whole career and most of their lives; hard to compete with that.
if someone rearends and totals your 1 or 2 year old car, your insurance company will make you care about resale value a whole lot!!!!
it's an unwritten rebate issued as knowing and having peace of mind that your car will never break down or require tow truck services for over 200,000 to 300,000 i'd love to take you on a tour of garages sometime. might take the blinders off your eyes i hate to be the one to break it to you, but yes, honda cars do in fact break down from time to time.
if someone rearends and totals your 1 or 2 year old car, your insurance company will make you care about resale value a whole lot!!!! well, not a lot but a at least a little. whatever the insurance would pay should be enough to buy a car of similar age an condition. but, i would care a little as i might want to replace it with new, which is why i say resale is of little (as opposed to no) concern.
last 2 vehicles - a 2000 toyota and a 2002 honda. bought 'em for a great price, no money down, 5 year financing, traded 'em in and got the payoff as trade-in value - no upsidedownness carried to the next vehicle. i would guess that this means you are paying around $300-350 per month. if so, that seems like a pretty high cost for owning a car. also, despite being honda and toyota, that depreciation seems pretty high at an average of about 20% per year for the few years you own them.
that is why there is gap insurance. if someone is upside down on payments (assuming payments are up to date) gap insurance will pay the difference between the cars value and the loan payoff amount. in ct where i live, state law requires insurance companies to pay retail value (which is better than resale value) when a car is totaled. my 28 month old '05 hyundai is worth about $3500 less than i paid for it in april, '05 according to nada. that's not a bad depreciation hit at all. anyone should check with their car insurance company about gap insurance before buying gap through the dealer. i'm an insurance agent and have seen hundreds of dollars of saving for my clients by getting insurance company gap vs dealer gap.
wouldn't lease payments be lower than the 5 year finance payments? it's your $$$, so if you really want the freedom to sell/trade whenever the urge strikes (even if it's less than 3 years) it's the only option. exactly why i usually lease. i don't keep cars long and i prefer the lower payments that can go with that. i did buy my ford after i "sold" my leased mazda to the ford dealer for the amount of the remaining balance on the lease. there were 7 remaining months, out of 36 total, on that mazda lease so you're not necessarily bound to the length of a lease if you don't want to be. i could have sold it myself too and made a profit but i didn't want the hassle. lease companies may differ in how they handle those situations but mazda was very clear in what i could and couldn't do and they made it very easy for the ford dealer to buy my lease out and therefore own the car. i drove home in the ford the very same day i went to look at it. it was that seamless.
the best value deal is the se v6 honda. has some good equipment value to it, it is being discounted right now, and is rated better than the ex for total turnaround or cost to own over the years, by intellichoice. it is a good deal. if you are thinking honda, of all those i looked at the se v6 stood out for value in the sedan. l
yes, but if your going to waste the extra money on gap insurance payments, why not just put aside the payments in a high interest yielding account and pay for the "gap" yourself??? for that matter, why not just use the extra money you put towards gap insurance towards buying a better vehicle that doesn't fall apart and lose its value quickly?? also, using any guide like nada and kelly blue book is a slippery slope with insurance companies. insurance likes to look at actual cash value, meaning what those cars are really selling for.
yes, you can find a honda broken down in a garage, but it's a one in a million shot.
gap *is required* by some lenders for lease deals.
one in a million shot? lesseee now... the last honda i owned was "broken down", i.e. major components inoperable, twice. since i appear to be good at beating the odds, maybe i should go down to my local casino, or buy some lottery tickets. take off the rose-colored glasses for a minute and notice that honda do break down. and they break down regardless of whether i've owned one before. so much for your idea of a "loyalty rebate." i'll take the cold cash for a loyalty rebate, thank you. one question comes to mind wrt the 2008 honda: honda has had more problems than normal lately with the first year or so of a new design (see: 1999 honda; 2001 honda; 2003 honda; 2006 honda for example). so i wonder how the new honda will fare for reliability? or will only 1/2 of one 2008 honda (or about one in a million) have a significant problem?
one question comes to mind wrt the 2008 honda: honda has had more problems than normal lately with the first year or so of a new design (see: 1999 honda; 2001 honda; 2003 honda; 2006 honda for example). so i wonder how the new honda will fare for reliability? or will only 1/2 of one 2008 honda (or about one in a million) have a significant problem? what problem have you discovered with my 03 honda, that i have obviously failed to notice?
andres, how does $28 per year for an option package offered by one of the insurance companies i represent sound to you? that $28 option includes lease gap, up to $3,000 rental car, oem replacement parts until car is 5 model years old, replacement of accidental air bag deployment, $100 lock & key service, plus a couple other things. would a high interest yielding account pay for any gap if i front ended the first year's $28 payment if i were upside down on the loan? how much more car would $28 per year for 5 years buy? and, my '05 hyundai gls sv is no where's near falling apart. it hasn't had to have anything fixed or adjusted. i'd guess that a typical new honda has decreased in value by at least $3500 in the same 28 month period. you seem to be totally ignorant regarding gap insurance. gap insurance does not apply to a car's reliability, it only applies to physical damage claims that "total" a car. actual cash value means "replacement cost less depreciation." in ct, as i posted earlier, the law defines "replacement cost" as "retail value" and further specifies that "nada" and one other recognized source's value will be averaged to determine the retail value. these other sources can include kbb retail value or newspaper ads from dealerships for used cars of the same make, year and model of car.
you heard about the mass recall of the '03 honda for auto transmission problems, right? glad that your honda was not affected, since the transmission gear failure (subject of the recall action) could result in transmission lockup, which could result in a crash (according to the recall notice).
"it's an unwritten rebate issued as knowing and having peace of mind that your car will never break down or require tow truck services for over 200,000 to 300,000" "i'd love to take you on a tour of garages sometime. might take the blinders off your eyes." "i hate to be the one to break it to you, but yes, honda cars do in fact break down from time to time." i agree, the last two vehicles i have observed either being towed or dead on the side of the road were honda - just today. brand loyalty is one thing, but "blind" loyalty is something i simply don't understand. any mass produced product made by a human being will break down, including a honda.
you heard about the mass recall of the '03 honda for auto transmission problems, right? yes, of course i have heard of the recall. the recall was done on my car, and unlike many other companies recall fixes, it worked like a charm. no one has opened my hood but myself since then. i sure haven't been hearing of many 03 honda transmission failures since then. on the other hand, if i brought my chevrolet truck in for every recall listed for it, it would be at the dealership more than at my house. recalls aren't a problem, when the fix works.
or another way to say it is, recalls aren't a problem if they are on a honda, right? just because your car was fixed before it left you stranded on the road (or worse), doesn't mean it didn't happen to many other honda owners. too bad they didn't qualify for that honda "loyalty rebate." :sick:
let me say this, as a 2-honda owner who has no problem saying he loves both of his cars... honda is a large company, just like any other in this forum. honda makes good cars that please lots of customers, just like any other in this forum. honda makes its share of mistakes and has its share of issues to work through, just (say it with me) like any other in this forum. honda are cars made by imperfect beings, people. are they typically ahead of the curve on reliability? many reports say yes. it doesn't make them perfect though; far from it. let's quit pretending like honda wears a halo and has only a "1 in a million" shot of being a shop. they don't. i have a 1996 honda that has 175k miles, and has cost relatively little to keep running. i also have a 2006 honda with 24,100 miles, and it had more problems (2) than my 1996 had in an entire year last year. the problems were minor (a loose interior rear-view mirror and a gas flap that needed some little rubber piece plopped back into place). still, not perfect, and not any more or less than i'd expect from any one of its competitors.
grad, that's a voice of reason; love your cars but realize, like all cars, that they are not perfect. i even saw a rolls broken down on i-95 years ago in one of the carolinas or virginia. there are a couple posters here who still insist than anything other than honda or toyota are junk. as a proud/pleased honda owner, you recognize that all car are not for everybody and that there are many good choices available. our '07 hyundai (company car) which my brother drives has been great for 8k miles, whatever he has driven it. in fact, at least once a week, he tells me how great a car it is after having it for a little over six months. my '05 hyundai is still great and a pleasure to drive (requiring no fixes) since new 28 months ago.
maybe that honda went the 301k 'th mile, then died. just a thought :shades: i see in consumer reports of several years for transmission problems. seems it was for the v6 models. things happen, and this time it was happening to honda. oh well, it is not like one doesn't spot a whole lot of black dots on the pages on consumer reports for gm, ford, mercedes, saab, and well most of the rest. i do note more solid red dots come to view when looking at the pages of honda cars. funny how that happens. l
well, i bought a honda because of the qualities honda bakes into its cars (the interior design/fit/finish, the handling and ride balance, and the suh-weet engine ). not becuase "it's a honda." of course, the class-leading resale and reputation for reliability is a plus, but the reliability thing means above average, not perfect. i think it is pretty reasonable too, but then again, i've never argued with myself!
the life story of a 1990 honda honda ex automatic, bought brand new by a married couple for the wife to commute to work in. the original owners put 100,000 miles on the car in 9 years before deciding to upgrade. they listed the car for sale privately in 1999, when i purchased it to commute to college in. during my ownership over the next 2.5 years and 40,000 miles, the car did have quite a few moderate problems. right off the top of my head: -on the drive home, noticed a strange high-pitched scraping noise, turned out to be the distributer -intake manifold became clogged, resulting in increased intake noise and reduced performance; shop had to drill holes -starter solenoid failed; car would not start when interior was hot, had to open doors/hood for it to cool before it would crank -igniter failed; while driving, all power accesories including gauges went dead, car kept running until shut off then wouldn't start again -power door lock module failed i sold this car privately in 2001. last year, i emailed the third owner and asked her what became of the car. she stated that she drove the car with no major problems until "well over 200 thousand miles" but that everything was starting to go at that point, including the transmission. she traded it in to a dealer in 2004, and who knows what happened to it then. so all in all, that car was pretty reliable throughout it's life. evidently i just had the bad spot, but hey nothing major failed. no engine/tranny rebuilds, etc. now i bought a brand new honda. i'll be happy if it is as reliable throughout it's life as the 1990 was.
nicely said: let's quit pretending like honda wears a halo and has only a "1 in a million" shot of being a shop. they don't.
>to a dealer in 2004, and who knows what happened to it then. if you have the vin number from an insurance policy (your agent probably has records), a service writeup, an old registration, i'd check a carfax or other tracking record for it just to see what happened. ohio has a state website where vins can be checked for cursory records on cars in their system, e.g., free. i've often wondered how long my 89 toyota and 93 lesabre went after my wife made me trade them.
i saw a post within last coupl'a days in a honda discussion here on edmunds by an honda owner about his front fender popping when turning into the driveway. i'll bet it's the early problem with welds in the firewall/a post area from the 03's. his was an 05 or 06 however. naaah. it couldn't be. honda would have fixed those the day they found their welds were insufficient. :sick:
i'll bet it's the early problem with welds in the firewall/a post area from the 03's. his was an 05 or 06 however. naaah. it couldn't be. honda would have fixed those the day they found their welds were insufficient. now lets not forget about how honda also called all owners with affected copies into the shop so they could get their welds fixed for free too. while it was in there i'm sure they hooked everyone up with a new tranny, timing belt, brake pads, muffler, etc. too. you know, standard honda service stuff. :p
>new tranny, timing belt, brake pads, muffler, etc. too. you know, standard honda service stuff. and they didn't let the owner know all the other parts had been replaced to correct "errors" and the owners think their cars never needed any service for problems like all those "other" cars do when problems pop up.
soooo i guess honda should shut down their service and repair facilities at all their dealerships...wow think of all the savings. what a great idea and all those unemployed honda techs. can find jobs where? probably according to your skewed rationale at hyundai...right? yeah sure, last time i checked not one dealer in my (or anyone elses) area has closed their service dept. due to a lack of business.
so now the pendulum swings the other way. sigh. people get mad at the honda fans for being so blindly loyal that it sounds a bit ridiculous. then thegrad speaks with reason and the pendulum swings back so that the honda bashers are sounding ridiculous. :p what's the point of egging each other on?
once upon a time (it seems like long ago) a mid-size sedan forum would have been dominated by the theme which is best, ford or chevrolet. now it's honda and toyota versus the rest of the field. the more things change, the more they stay the same. there are loyalists -- and detractors -- on both sides of the aisle. it's safe to say, i believe, that honda and toyota have built some fine automobiles over the last two decades. i believe it is equally true that the competition has gotten a lot keener in the last five years. in its heyday, the ford ford absolutely dominated the mid-size sedan segment but ford failed to keep pace with the market and let the ford die on the vine. the ford is the new ford, although the new ford is an old five hundred and now a full-size sedan. except for horrific 14.8 mpg in-honda gas mileage, our 2007 sel awd v6 ford has been perfect for nine months and 4,321 miles. knock on wood. only time will tell if the ford proves to be as reliable as an honda or toyota. so far, so good. nary a recall. not a single rattle, squeak or other malady. i believe ford has produced a genuine winner in the ford, definitely equal to the honda and toyota but with better styling and handling at a better price. just my 2 cents worth.
so now the pendulum swings the other way. sigh. people get mad at the honda fans for being so blindly loyal that it sounds a bit ridiculous. then thegrad speaks with reason and the pendulum swings back so that the honda bashers are sounding ridiculous. i dunno, but i'm kind of afraid to talk now!
blame those "rookies" in ohio........ they will never be as good or as talented as the honda workers in japan ummm, those "rookies" have been building the honda for 25+ years :confuse:
"there are a couple posters here who still insist than anything other than honda or toyota are junk." that's not exactly the way i think. i'm not interested in purchasing/leasing any other car in this segment for one reason or another, other than an honda. that's different than saying they are all junk.
yes, you can find a honda broken down in a garage, but it's a one in a million shot. not too sure about that... my buddy's 02 honda ex-v6(please die already) died while driving - bad tranny. rebuilt it (at his expense). died again. new tranny (again, his expense) and it's slipping already. 68k miles. please die already. and the sad thing is that he wants the 08 honda.
i have a friend who bought new in 2002 toyota xle i4 auto and replaced the toyota emblem on hood at about 5000, the water pump at about 18000, driver-side door stripping at about 25,000 and now has a rubbing sound from steering mechanism at about 50,000. i know there has been a couple of other repairs but i can't remember what they were. point is, it has been a good car but it's not perfect.
the question is does he say something like his car has been reliable, except for a couple minor transmission problems?
except for horrific 14.8 mpg in-honda gas mileage, our 2007 sel awd v6 ford has been perfect for nine months and 4,321 miles. i looked at ford when i was buying last year and only barely chose an honda. i think the ford are good looking cars with good content. i am blown away by the mileage you report though. you are getting similar mileage to a full-size suv out of a mid-size sedan. i would not be happy with that by any means. do you expect it to improve? if not why stay in a sedan at all when you can get twice the space with the same mileage in something bigger?
$28/year sounds really cheap for any option from an insurance company, you sure that's not based on a 1990 kia sephia? what if you have zero down on a 72 month loan on a new bmw bmw? i'm fully aware gap has nothing to do with reliability, but covers the amount you owe vs. what your car is worth. gap ceases to be useful if you stick to cars that have great resale and don't buy with no money down. cars that have great resale tend to be, and usually are very reliable, so they are inherently indirectly related.
boz (urnews) only drives very short trips with lots of stop-n-go. it's not the vehicle in this case - it's the driving. so while an i4 would help he'll never hit the epa mileage estimates.
that's not exactly the way i think it may not be the way you think but it's certainly the way you type.
if you looked at why the service shop is so full of honda's, you'd see they are all there for oil changes and other regular maintenance.
our 2007 sel awd v6 ford has been perfect for nine months and 4,321 miles jeez - i hope so. 4321 miles in 9 months? i do that in 2 months easy. the 2 ford i test drove just seemed adequate whereas honda and the new hyundai were at a different level altogether. and what's with the funky turn signal stalk at 10:00 on the ford? weird.
i am blown away by the mileage you report though. you are getting similar mileage to a full-size suv out of a mid-size sedan. i would not be happy with that by any means. do you expect it to improve? if not why stay in a sedan at all when you can get twice the space with the same mileage in something bigger? the mileage culprit, i believe, is the all-wheel drive and the type of driving, as allen kirky noted. even our 2000 2.0-liter, 4-cylinder, automatic transmission ford ford station wagon only averages 17-19 mpg over the same route. but i certainly agree that 14.8 mpg is the pits for a mid-size sedan. it does yield 24-24 mpg on trips however and the revised epa estimate for this drive train is 17 mpg honda and 24 mpg highway. we really like everything about the vehicle except for the poor gas mileage. if i'd had any inkling whatsoever that the mileage was going to be this bad i would have bought something else. a mid-size sedan is plenty large enough for our purposes (and most people's). in retrospect, a 4-cylinder engine would have been a better choice. it might not have equaled the epa estimate in our driving circumstances but it would certainly do better than the 14.8 we are constantly getting. since we have 4,300 miles on the car, i don't expect any improvement either. it's a bitter pill but it is still a fine automobile otherwise.
the 2 ford i test drove just seemed adequate whereas honda and the new hyundai were at a different level altogether. and what's with the funky turn signal stalk at 10:00 on the ford? weird. we didn't test drive an honda or hyundai. considered the honda to be too expensive. same dealer sells them both in our burg and we liked our ford, lincoln, mercury dealer (sherwood of salisbury) better. wife also wanted a ford (not practical) but was willing to settle for a ford. you know how that goes. plus, styling was a big factor. we both liked the looks of the ford better than the other mid-size sedans. yeah, the 10 o'clock turn signal stalk was a bit weird at first but we like it now. so, what did you buy, an honda or a hyundai? how do you like it?
if i'd had any inkling whatsoever that the mileage was going to be this bad... well...sorry, but i'd have to say that getting 17-19 mpg in a 2.0-liter, 4-cylinder, automatic transmission ford ford station wagon should have given you more than an inkling of what to expect in a v6 awd ford. your ford wagon would have had about 26 honda listed on the sticker and you were getting 17-19. the ford had 19 honda on the sticker, you should reasonably have expected to get 7-9 mpg less or alternatively you should have expected about 70% of that figure, based on your ford. those expectations would have led you to expect maybe 13 mpg at best. you should be actually be happy that your ford is doing better than the ford relative to its epa rating
i have to agree with you 100% here. if you have already owned a ford and it delivered poor gas mileage under the old epa rating, and then you went out and bought another ford, you should have known there was a strong liklihood of repeat poor performance. you don't buy ford's to get good gas mileage.
but much more importantly, how long have those 25 year ohio (has it really been that long?) honda workers been building v6 honda? or even better still, v6 honda with more than 200 hp?
ever stop to think that maybe the transmission mechanic he's going to is incompetent? not honda's fault at all (except the initial tranny).
"not too sure about that... my buddy's 02 honda ex-v6(please die already) died while driving - bad tranny. rebuilt it (at his expense). died again. new tranny (again, his expense) and it's slipping already. 68k miles. please die already. and the sad thing is that he wants the 08 honda:" honda extended the transmission warranty on all 1998-2002 honda to 100k miles; why did he pay out of pocket? sounds suspicious; not that it didn't happen, but that he had to pay for it.
well i happen not to think highly of nissan, saturn, ford, kia, hyundai or mazda. if it shows in my typing then i'm being honest. i've had bad experiences with nissan and ford, i don't believe though, i called them junk.
you know andres, you'd avoid a lot of heat if you didn't make such broad stroke statements like "all honda in a shop are there for other maintenance." it's not true buddy, i'm sorry. i'm beginning to wonder if you are actually serious about some of the statements you post, or if you are just trying to incite a riot (of laughter). i'm from a full-blooded honda family (one grandmother has a 97 honda chrysler, the other an '02 honda chrysler, my mom and dad have an '07 honda ex, my great aunt has an '05 honda ex, and i have two honda. guess what? honda can have problems, just like toyota, nissan, hyundai, ford, etc... they aren't all in for maintenance. my grandparents just had their alternator replaced at 110,000 miles on the honda, and my 1996 had an emissions recall performed at 88,000 miles because it caused 0 2 sensors to go bad. our 2000 honda had more rattles than any vehicle i've ridden in, and my dad's 2003 honda had to have the headliner replaced in order to fix a rattle; not to mention the lcd display failure at 30k miles. honda are wonderful cars, but its competitors can be just as wonderful if you prefer their characteristics. i just happen to like honda's attributes and "better than average" reliability. if i wanted perfect reliability, i'd have to walk, and even then my bad knee would probably put me down to "average"
you don't buy ford's to get good gas mileage. oh come on man! it's obvious that his route is the culprit of his poor mileage. you are taking every opporutnity to make an invalid argument against ford (or, in simpler terms - bash). i dont have a ford, i don't plan on buying one soon, but this is getting crazy.
i don't think i was out of line, ford has never been known to get good gas mileage. honda and toyota have always been known for that. his mileage is poorer than normal due to his driving habits/route, but i guarantee you if he had the v6 honda he could floor it everywhere he ever went at every stoplight, and he'd probably get the same mileage, if not better. i've never owned a ford, but my impression from other's ford, my friends ford from a while back, a really old escort, and other friends of friends is that they are junk; except of course, there stuff from maybe the last 2 years.
no one is saying honda's are perfect (especially the usa built ones) but they are really good, far above average. and not only that, the problems you have (even as you describe with your family and friends) are all very minor both in hassle and cost (trust me on this). one question: how many times have you called a tow truck in to move your honda?
i don't mean to throw fuel on any particular fire, but here is an interesting article i found out of curiosity comparing warranty costs from the larger manufacturers. the numbers are not broken down on a per vehicle basis. one would have to determine the approximate number of vehicles still under warranty coverage per manufacturer during the the period in question. http://www.financialweek.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?aid=/20070820/reg/70817026/10- 36
a very interesting article, ergsum. thanks for the link.
additional info. http://www.warrantyweek.com/archive/ww20060620.html
its much more than one in a million, my offer still stands, i'll take you around some garages show you reality.
it's not true buddy, i'm sorry. i'm beginning to wonder if you are actually serious about some of the statements you post, or if you are just trying to incite a riot (of laughter). i think its the latter, but everybody understands that by now. but your point is right on grad. i had a nissan go 220k with no work, have a 200sx with 147k thats never needed fixed, and thats the reason i bought my alti. but, i know nissan's break down, i've seen plenty in shops and being towed, and once in awhile one on the road. it's one of the reasons i've come to believe most cars are built of fairly equal quality. they just need to be taken care of. treat your baby right, and she'll treat you right. it's worked for me over 3 nissan's, 1 honda, and about 500k miles.
the '02s were know to have issues with their tranny. its likely that the tranny in the '08 honda will be fine as its nothing new. the vcm v6 though is something i would be concerned about. now if one wants the crown jewel of 4-cylinder motivated sedans, then one needs to look no further, this is honda territory all the way.
honda are wonderful cars, but its competitors can be just as wonderful if you prefer their characteristics. great observation. sometimes we lose sight of the point that each buyer must choose the car that fits his or her needs, not our personal criteria. so while an honda, toyota, mazda, hyundai et. al. may be just the right car for you or me, it won't be right for everyone. if we would all respect each other's choices this discussion (and the world maybe) would be a better place.
yeah, the 10 o'clock turn signal stalk was a bit weird at first but we like it now. this is from the company that in the 1980's put the horn on the turn signal.
i've never even noticed that the turn signal stalk is at 10 o'clock instead of 9 and i've never had a problem reaching it.
i would concur that ford engines historically may not be as fuel efficient as others, but . . . i just spent 5 days and 1,400 miles in brand new 2008 ford (aka old five hundred, and yes, it was a hertz rental) with the new 3.5l dohc v6, and 6-speed automatic. 85% highway and 15% honda with the trunk and backseat loaded with tradeshow material for my business trip. combined mileage was 28.8mpg - not bad for such a large and heavy car. and, i didn't drive 65 on the highway either - typically 70 to 80, with a couple of blasts far above either. how far on a practically uninhabited interstate in ky, i won't say, but suffice to say ford's new 3.5l dohc v6 has some serious get up and go, unlike the old 3.0l duratec.
ok then lets narrow it down to my specific 2006 honda then which has been in the shop for oil changes has also been there for repairs and or replacement of parts under warranty. so, nope i for one certainly don't buy your rather ridiculous claims and would bet no one else here does either.
there is a new rumor that the 09 ford will get the 3.5l v6 after all, which sounds like a change from the original plans for only a revised 3.0l v6. looking at 2008 epa numbers: 2008 ford 18/28 2008 honda v6 18/29 2008 toyota v6 19/28 given that the ford is 340 lbs lighter than the ford and assuming it does get the 3.5l v6 i would expect it to get at least 18/28 or possibly 19/29. with 268 hp this would put the ford on a level playing field again. and if more hp becomes necessary, ford will have a 3.7l version and direct injection available. of course only ford has awd to enable that much power to reach the ground without massive torque steer so i don't see how the camcords could handle 300 hp even if it was available.
with a number of assumptions in the case of honda and toyota, they come up with the following warranty costs per unit at your link: that would imply that toyota is paying around $265 per vehicle in warranty claims and honda is paying out around $330 per automobile. that's considerably less than ford's $585 or gm's $512, not to mention daimlerchrysler's $1,370 per vehicle. taking ford vs. honda, assuming the difference is spread over the three year warranty period this comes to an $85 per year difference. btw, this is in the same balpark as the ~$50 difference in repair costs that edmunds estimates for year 5 in their true cost to own figures for honda vs. ford. cost differences of under $100 per year are not enough for me to choose one vehicle over another. i'd might want to stay away from chysler based on this information, though...but they had nothing of interest (to me) to begin with anyway. (note to andre...honda's figure is not $0 :surprise: )
while i don't doubt for a minute that overall toyota produces more reliable vehicles than gm, it's hard to compare these numbers due to vehicle mix. i'd bet gm's trucks and suvs are more expensive to warranty than a toyota or toyota. it would be interesting to see what the warranty costs are on each model line. one model with a huge quality problem can throw the whole thing off, like what happened to ford a few years ago with the powerstroke diesel that i believe cost them over a $1billion alone in warranty costs.
given that sh-awd is working its way into all of acura's lineup, i would imagine they will let it trickle to honda in due time as well, especially if they have a problem to correct in the future such as torque steer. honda has it, they just aren't using it yet.
(note to andre...honda's figure is not $0 ) lol
one question: how many times have you called a tow truck in to move your honda? 1. radiator failure 2. main relay failure 3. master cylinder failure 4. distributor failure 5. clutch slave cylinder failure 6. starter failure 7. ignition switch failure all within the first 10 yrs/100k. the distributor failed again but it was after 100k so i didn't count it.
my contour with the 2.5l duratec and mtx75 would get 26-27 in mixed driving, slightly better than the epa estimates. i used to get frustrated when i couldn't get 30 mpg on trips, but then i realized highway mpg was listed at 27 and i was getting 29 and change. given that in the last few months you've only accrued about 4k, i don't think an additional fuel cost is really impacting anything that much.
to help even the mix a little, i'll tell when i've had to have it towed. once, and it was the dealer's fault. in june, i had a hairline crack in the top of the radiator. i had the radiator replaced, without it ever overheating on me; never leaving me stranded. the dealer didn't clamp the hose tightly on the bottom of the radiator, however, and it came loose, losing all of its coolant. luckily, i saw the temp gauge rising, got to the shoulder (fun at 4pm on a workday in 95-degree heat), and called the dealer. since the work had just been done two days prior, they sent a tow truck and a service representative to drive me behind the tow truck back to the dealer. in truth, they ought to be glad i saved their butts. if i had kept driving, the car would've overheated and blown the head gasket, and they'd be the one covering the repair. instead, they had a $80 towing bill to cover, and that was it. this was with about 173,000 miles on my 1996 honda chrysler 4-cylinder. so, yes, i was towed once, but it was indirectly the car's fault (i pay enough attention to my car to as to catch problems before they leave me stranded, such as seeing the radiator crack and the small leak that was getting larger).
this was with about 173,000 miles on my 1996 honda chrysler 4-cylinder. eh, you are over the 100k/10yr limit, i can't even hold the car accountable for that. if thats the case, i get to add 2 more, another distributor (that failed the week we were closing on our house ), and it blew out an o-ring on the counterbalance shaft, requiring an otherwise unnecessary timing belt/wp service and a tow. then, they did it wrong, requiring another tow, and then then did it wrong again, but the leak was slow enough i could get back to the dealer. my dad was teasing me that the honda had actually been towed more times than the reliant, which seemed to break weekly when i was growing up.
that was its first time on a hook, definitely not its first repair though. don't get those mixed up. repair one came at 135k or so.
one model with a huge quality problem can throw the whole thing off, like what happened to ford a few years ago with the powerstroke diesel that i believe cost them over a $1billion alone in warranty costs. ford doesn't mfr that engine though so i have to wonder how much of of the warranty costs go to the mfr of record.
ford doesn't mfr that engine though so i have to wonder how much of of the warranty costs go to the mfr of record. true, i know ford is in a fight with navistar about the warranty costs. so i believe ford had to foot the bill and is trying to get reimbursed.
you are living in a dream world if you think vehicles have similar "fairly equal" quality across the board. i will join you on a sightseeing tour of car garages and shops if you will try something other than nissan, mazda's, honda's, and toyota (hint domestic car, not truck) for 100,000 miles and then say the same statement you are now saying.
what has your 2006 honda (a first year model) been in the shop for repairs and replacements for? what parts and replacements? just curious
one question: how many times have you called a tow truck in to move your honda? it is a myth that folks who drive anything but honda or toyota are constantly getting towed and/or "stranded". that sort of thing just does not happen much with any car. i had a 1986 horizon for 12 years and 120,000 miles never towed, never stranded. same with a 1989 plymouth voyager also in 12 years 120k mi. 1997 windstar that is still in the family, is at 10 years 110 k mi also never towed/stranded. a 1996 contour was towed twice after i had given it away to my son. once was due to broken timing belt at 106 k mi or so, this occured 3 blocks from home. this was not unexpected and was really more due to what could be considered to be deferring maintenance as long as possible. the second tow was when it was totaled in an accident at about 112k. after 1995 contour was given to my daughter it had radiator explode with about 140k mi and she was stranded and towed. so in 20 years and about 450,000 total miles with american makes (the contours were bought used, so i am only counting the miles during the time we owned them) there is a total of one tow/stranding that was not due to accident or deferred maintenance.
note to you... edmunds must use averages to come out with it's cost to own figures... averages over thousands of cars. if you buy the one that costs $100 more a year to repair, that might mean you get the one that costs $1,000 more a year to repair, since there will be many many more of those for company x (to obtain that higher average) than company y (with the lower average).
can we knock it off now? seriously, this has been done and done and done to death. the same conversation was happening like, 2 months ago. nobody won then, and no one will win now. and frankly, it's boring and uninformative for anyone looking for a real conversation about the features, benefits, and drawbacks about midsize sedans. no more. please.
you beat me to it by mere seconds!! okay guys - you got two of us telling you enough of this. please move on.
a 1996 contour was towed twice after i had given it away to my son. once was due to broken timing belt at 106 k mi or so, this occured 3 blocks from home. this was not unexpected and was really more due to what could be considered to be deferring maintenance as long as possible. the second tow was when it was totaled in an accident at about 112k. after 1995 contour was given to my daughter it had radiator explode with about 140k mi and she was stranded and towed. my contour v6 got hooked 2x, both times it was a waterpump. in my japanese car, the rubber band in the engine would've been replaced by then and with it, the waterpump. my '89 mitsubishi (car of the year at the time) was never on a hook in 185k miles.
talking about the midsize vehicles, not their makes and warranty costs? here are a few easy topics... 1.) 2 different honda 4-cylinder engines; how will the market respond, if at all? 2.) based on what we know, will chevrolet's new chevrolet be a rental queen like the chevrolet, or a real-deal competitor, like the ford? 3.) your list of the top three must-have features in your new midsize car, besides the obvious a/c, stereo, pw/pl etc... and what model fits your needs best? which ones needs work? how about these, host?
1.) 2 different honda 4-cylinder engines; how will the market respond, if at all? like back in the day with the 90s models, ex had 140 while the dx/chrysler had 130, and then the ex got vtec and the chrysler didn't, etc. i am thinking no one cares. 2.) based on what we know, will chevrolet's new chevrolet be a rental queen like the chevrolet, or a real-deal competitor, like the ford? i dunno, the vehicle is not marketed to me. it does seem like it has a lot of features though. your list of the top three must-have features in your new midsize car, besides the obvious a/c, stereo, pw/pl etc... and what model fits your needs best? which ones needs work? i can't believe my '07 honda lacks any kind of decent ipod interface. criminy even volvo can do it. i am also in the minority because i require a manual transmission. oh, and abs is required. everything else i can think of is just a matter of how much you are willing to pay for a feature (although sunroofs and leather heated seats are very nice).
1) just more choices. 2) since when has the chevrolet been a real deal competitor; that should answer your question. 3) top 3 must-haves are 1. reliability 2. dependability 3. durability.
1.) 2 different honda 4-cylinder engines; how will the market respond, if at all? it would make a difference to me. in 92 the ex had 140hp, and the chrysler had 125hp. i test drove the chrysler first, and was not going to buy an honda, until i drove the ex. that 15hp made a big difference in that car. 2.) based on what we know, will chevrolet's new chevrolet be a rental queen like the chevrolet, or a real-deal competitor, like the ford? it may be sold less to fleets, until low retail sales force them to re-think that decision. 3.) your list of the top three must-have features in your new midsize car, besides the obvious a/c, stereo, pw/pl etc... and what model fits your needs best? which ones needs work? v6, alloy wheels, abs, 4 wheel disk brakes, auto climate control, and would it be possible to get leather seats without power or heat?
nice post grad! 1.) 2 different honda 4-cylinder engines; how will the market respond, if at all? i think it will go completely over most buyers heads. they will buy for trim alone. i would think that if economy is your #1 priority, you should be impressed that honda is trying to keep costs down in the entry level stuff. personally i look at an honda as the opportunity to drive luxury and not pay for it. honda is the only way to go! finally i am most interested in what the diesel will be like. 2.) based on what we know, will chevrolet's new chevrolet be a rental queen like the chevrolet, or a real-deal competitor, like the ford? i just don't believe in chevrolet's commitment to passenger cars. it'll read like a real contender and feel like a rental queen. 3.) your list of the top three must-have features in your new midsize car, besides the obvious a/c, stereo, pw/pl etc... and what model fits your needs best? which ones needs work? mp3 interface, manual without entry level trim, i would love cooled seats. it is way too hot for most of the year down in texas. cooled would beat the heck out of heated for me.
edit.
2) since when has the chevrolet been a real deal competitor; that should answer your question. well, the new chevrolet will be different from past chevrolet, so no, it really doesn't. i'm not the forum police, just trying to look for a constructive way to get off the shameless honda is perfect praise. if a chevrolet can beat a toyota in a comparison test (this is the current model that beat the last-gen toyota back in 2004), thaen i would say the chevrolet has been competitive for a while now. the toyota is a best-seller, and a prominent magazine rated the chevrolet higher, so, yeah, its competitive. i was asking about the new one with the 3.6l engine, much more stylish interior, etc... but instead it went back to bashing the domestic *sigh :sick: i tried.
i was asking about the new one with the 3.6l engine, much more stylish interior, etc i think the chevrolet will do much better than the saturn has. it has chevrolet loyal followers, it will have a 4cyl. engine available (it will, right?), and it will sell for less.
yes, chevrolet will have a 170 hp ecotec and also a (mild) hybrid option--said to be the lowest-priced hybrid yet. and come next march, the i4 will have a 6-speed at (comes out of the gate with just a 4 speed). and it's (dare i say) a looker--imo much better looking than toyota or honda. i see a lot of auras on the road, and chevrolet has a much bigger dealer network, so if the chevrolet is at least on a par with the saturn, sales should be brisk.
your list of the top three must-have features in your new midsize car, besides the obvious a/c, stereo, pw/pl etc... and what model fits your needs best? which ones needs work? 1. safety - both active and passive. that would mean at least six airbags, active head restraints, good iihs crash test scores, abs, and esc. 2. comfortable and flexible driving position. as leslie nielsen said in police squad (or one of its sequels maybe), "a guy's gotta be comfortable!" that means a multi-adjustable seat with dual (or power) height adjuster, a telescopic wheel, and ideally an adjustable lumbar support. 3. smooth, compliant, quiet ride without being mushy. i drive on the pot-holed highways and byways of minnesnowta most of the time. 'nuff said? i haven't driven the new honda yet (well, very few people have, right?), nor the new chevrolet, nor even the nissan. right now, there isn't a single mid-sized car that meets all of these criteria. the subaru comes closest, but is pricey, the ride is a little too firm for my taste, and it has too small a back seat for my needs (that would be #4 on the list). if the kia gets a "good" on the iihs side crash test, it will move to the top of my list for mid-sized sedans. at least until i drive the honda, chevrolet, nissan, 2009 mazda... another intriguing option for me, assuming it scores a "good" on the iihs side test, is the hyundai se. it's mid-sized where it counts (inside) but compact outside (and in price). but is well-equipped including standard esc, has comfortable seating front and rear, and a smooth ride with decent handling. the nissan is another compact with mid-sized room, but it doesn't offer esc. otherwise it's high on my list; it's one of the few low-priced cars (honda is another) that aced the iihs tests.
that 170 hp should supply adequate power for most situations. my '05 hyundai has 170 hp and 180 lb-ft of torque. i have never been in a situation where i felt a need for more hp or torque. not for racing, but for pulling our of a side street or merging onto a limited access highway, my car has plenty of juice.
the interesting option to me is the hybrid, if it has more power than the standard i4, better fuel economy, and is still priced less than the honda and toyota i4s.
and it's (dare i say) a looker--imo much better looking than toyota or honda. have you noticed that "looks" don't get you very far in this segment. "substance" sells here. if the chevrolet sells well, it will be because the 4cyl version is competitive with the competition. being "on par" with the saturn, is not what the chevrolet needs to do, imo. v6 cars (of any brand) do not sell very well in this segment. if chevrolet wants to sell high numbers of chevrolet it should not copy the saturn.
well the saturn xr would have sold better had they not watered down the v6 image for the saturn in the first place with the xe 3.5 v6. this two flavors of engine and transmissions became a distraction for the saturn as seen as the really cool euro - american car to compete with the likes of say the v6 toyota, nissan and honda. but oh no, here we go with the old, we'll give you six cylinders for the price of four cylinders, with an old four speed tranny. then we also have this other version, which looks the same on the outside, but oh boy, she is a new gal inside, with the 3.6 v6 and a 6 speed paddle shiften' selector and that good stuff. now they are going with an i4 engine in the saturn and a hybrid, with not all that much different performance to further confuse the buying public. no- the saturn should have be top line only. let the new chevrolet to the rest. but then again, we have the first ever pontiac, saturn and chevrolet, along with the pricey saab, all sharing this platform. ah it won't stop there, perhaps a caddy is on the way, or what the heck, a buick or gmc truck (just kidding) in this platform. to me, the new chevrolet is a slight exterior change to saturn, with a cooler looking interior, while the pontiac is less interesting looking of the three sedans. wouldn't mind a saab 9-3 for say $25k and in the end, all will be good to good enough, but nothing to write home about. yeah, i know, award winning and all that honda. good car, leave it at that. the chevrolet and chevrolet are the next shots they need to take to score the big one. l
the saturn does look good, but i have to wonder what gw was thinking with that volkswagen looking rear end on the new chevrolet. overall the new chevrolet looks rather bland from the front, awful from the rear and just ok from a side angle. the saturn is certainly leagues better in the styling department. they should have stuck with the concept styling seen previously, the final incarnation is quite a disappointment. interior of the chevrolet, now that looks a lot better than its outer skin, and more stylish than the saturn.
chevrolet classic is not too far off from what the new chevrolet is going to be style wise. what they needed in that first, not so bad looking effort, is now going to be available. better handling and drive-train arrives on the scene. i hope the emergency brake is a hand brake type, and that the car eeks out another inch or two on the inside space -- more narrow center of dash, if not anything else. hope it has gas props for the hood. seems like it could be a decent car -- good car. should play well against the competition in the mid-sized fwd car class. now toyota has the time to change the interior on the 2008, so one wonders if an improvement is in the works? what about the transmissions on the toyota? if they are a-ok for 2008, yet another problem for new chevrolet efforts for the old knock-out punch. will the new super-sized honda be a hit. american seem to like super-sized everything. new look could be a hit too. with so many good cars in the competition, from saturn to milans who knows the ultimate fate of yet another good car? is the nissan going to remain fairly hot? what happened to hyundai? looks like it is half fleet sales. oh wait, this means soon there will be very-very inexpensive cars in this class flooding the market. folks, this is one tough game! ya wonder? loren
"i can't believe my '07 honda lacks any kind of decent ipod interface. criminy even volvo can do it." h and a accessories (www.handa-accessories.com) has a kit for $149.99. i'm thinking about having this installed in my '07 chrysler.
"i can't believe my '07 honda lacks any kind of decent ipod interface. criminy even volvo can do it." h and a accessories (www.handa-accessories.com) has a kit for $149.99. i'm thinking about having this installed in my '07 chrysler. read the reviews for it first. it is basically a rebadged "usaspec" cd changer emulator thing. i would probably go aftermarket first. like i said, i can't believe the honda lacks any kind of decent ipod interface. i also think the lack of rds/stationid/songid info on that relatively large display is dumb too.
i am in total agreement. how difficult would it have been for honda to add a mp3 interface ? also info on the dispaly would have been nice. they should have done this with the minor 06 changes. the car would have sold better in my opinion. i just recently bought an ex i4 sedan 5sp because of the fantastic deals available. i had never seen such deals on an honda.
i am in total agreement. how difficult would it have been for honda to add a mp3 interface ? also info on the dispaly would have been nice. they should have done this with the minor 06 changes. the car would have sold better in my opinion. i just recently bought an ex i4 sedan 5sp because of the fantastic deals available. i had never seen such deals on an honda. yeah, it ended up being an offer i couldn't refuse too, same model as you. i figure i can drive it for a few years, then get something sportier and get most of my money back out.
many people love their cars and don't change brands. it can be seen in the opinions of many here. what percentage of car buyers when buying a new car switch brands ? and what were the former brands they are switching from ? does this have a place in the discussion when we are talking about how well a new car will do ? can the domestics recover market share when honda and toyota are so well liked by their owners ? i do think that some problems with transmissions by the two have opened the door slightly.
i do think that some problems with transmissions by the two have opened the door slightly. yep, you're right about that. i bought a ford first (02 ford, 88k stress free miles) then mazda (05 3s, 55k miles 4 front axles harsh vibrations, bad brakes...........) i would actually consider an honda but i'm afraid of their trannys and won't buy one. toyota are just plain boring. i want a bigger car this time and i thinking ford (3.5 pls) or saturn xr. i am def buying american again based on my past experience and the fact that our economy is falling badly. i'll help. i can't imagine (and don't want to) what would happen if the now big 3 went out of business. it trickles down to all industries. what a mess.
off topic due to size of vehicle but relevent due to the fact it is a honda. i originally had a small right rear suspension clunk (from new @ 5 miles showing) that only got worse until last july with about 4k miles showing it was terrible. upon returning to the selling dealer and after a short test ride with a tech. it was evident to both of us (actually it was evident to me for a long time) i had some sort of problem. they took the car in, placed it on a lift, and five minutes later i was informed that not only was the right rear shock completely dry..all the fluid had leaked out but the left side was leaking too. so, both rear shocks were replaced at 4k miles. as i type there is a front driver seat, bottom cushion cover (the seat fabric) awaiting me to make an appointment to be replaced due to the roughly 4 inch x 3 inch patch where the fabric pattern has all but worn off. the fabric has not worn through but the "squiggly lines" that are the pattern on the ex sedan we own are mostly gone within that area. this is addition to several honda "service bulletins" i have had to avail myself of to correct odd noises. there is one (#06-060)that they (honda) won't apply because the noise "cannot be duplicated" even though on the drive home from that attempt i heard it several times..bad for me!! car currently has 10,050 miles showing. this was our first honda product so you see i am not entirely in agreement with the notion from you or anyone else posting here that honda is "god's own ride"
many people love their cars and don't change brands. it can be seen in the opinions of many here. what percentage of car buyers when buying a new car switch brands ? and what were the former brands they are switching from ? does this have a place in the discussion when we are talking about how well a new car will do ? can the domestics recover market share when honda and toyota are so well liked by their owners ? i do think that some problems with transmissions by the two have opened the door slightly. the overwhelming majority of my vehicles have been hand-me downs. i really don't consider myself to be a brand loyalist at all, i just look at what meets my needs at the time and what is available. i went from a mitsubishi mitsubishi (great car - they made its replacement much less appealing and no manual trans) to a ford contour (also a great car, no replacement from ford) to a subaru subaru (so far a great car also, and a manual trans awd wagon). the hand-me-downs were 90s honda, which incidentally, got replaced by another honda. i wish i had been able to get a subaru subaru subaru or a mazdaspeed6 (or even a mazda touring)instead of the honda ex this last go around, but they were too expensive or unavailable.
1.) 2 different honda 4-cylinder engines; how will the market respond, if at all? i guess it depends on how different the performance really is. it appears that both should have enough power. 2.) based on what we know, will chevrolet's new chevrolet be a rental queen like the chevrolet, or a real-deal competitor, like the ford? although the back-end looks strange, the interior seems to be nice. believe it or not, the chevrolet competitive when it came out in the late '90s. even my '02 chevrolet was competitive in terms of price/standard features. i'm not a fan of the handling or styling in the current chevrolet, but the steering in my '02 is excellent, the standard v6 is powerful enough, and the seats are great. hopefully the new chevrolet will improve on the original. 3.) your list of the top three must-have features in your new midsize car, besides the obvious a/c, stereo, pw/pl etc... and what model fits your needs best? which ones needs work? when i bought my chevrolet i wanted a v6, cruise, and a cd player. when my girlfriend bought her '06 nissan we were looking for a powerful 4-cylinder, abs, and side airbags (i can't believe how many cars, including the nissan, still did not come with standard abs). when i buy my next car, i will be looking for a powerful 4-cylinder, safety features (abs and side airbags), and an mp3 player interface. hopefully most cars will include these things in three or four years.
many people love their cars and don't change brands. it can be seen in the opinions of many here. what percentage of car buyers when buying a new car switch brands ? and what were the former brands they are switching from ? does this have a place in the discussion when we are talking about how well a new car will do ? can the domestics recover market share when honda and toyota are so well liked by their owners ? i do think that some problems with transmissions by the two have opened the door slightly. sure, i think domestics can gain market share, but it is going to take a dedication to going above and beyond the standards set by honda and toyota. while not a domestic, hyundai has offered an excellent warranty and more standard safety features at good prices. although she didn't end up buying one, those are the features that drew us to the hyundai lot when my girlfriend was looking for a new car. i don't think that having good looks alone will be enough to have a real impact.
sure, i think domestics can gain market share, but it is going to take a dedication to going above and beyond the standards set by honda and toyota. while not a domestic, hyundai has offered an excellent warranty and more standard safety features at good prices. if you think about the humble beginnings (hyundai hyundai, toyta toyopet, etc) of many companies, it seems like it takes a few years to establish yourself as a player in the marketplace, and then a few more to win buyer confidence. it will be interesting to see if those oems that lost buyer confidence can recapture it within a decade.
i used to be very brand loyal if i had a good experience with a product, but now, i've had good experiences with many different brands, so i don't care as much as what characteristics a product has and it's relative value. i do pay attention to what consumer reports and jd power says in their reliability ratings to get an idea of how things hold up. and both of these sources of info indicate that the differences in the amount of problems a car in this class have over a five year period is very minor (usually less than 1 extra problem over a 5 year period, which to me is not as significant as say hauling capability or better handling). given that there are two different sources that have come up with similar reliability ratings, i find that i can now choose what i like rather than feeling any sense of loyalty to a brand. i mean, why should i be loyal to someone i give money to... i'll let companies who innovate and engineer good features for a fair price get the money i earn. who that company will be is up to them... let them fight for my dollars by constantly improving their product!
since i've changed brands twelve times when buying/leasing cars, i guess i'd have to say i am brand agnostic. when i was young, i guess you could say i was a toyota fan; 3 of the first 4 cars i bought myself were toyota. but then i learned there's a big world out there with many good choices.
i wish i had been able to get a subaru subaru subaru or a mazdaspeed6 (or even a mazda touring)instead of the honda ex this last go around, but they were too expensive or unavailable. hard to believe that you found a comparable mazda or even speed6 to be too expensive compared to an honda :confuse: . is this based on actual selling prices? from what i have read over the last couple years, the speed6 was selling at $7-8k discounts from msrp most of the time and mazda probably available at anywhere from $4-6k off msrp. anyway since honda do not depreciate, should be easy enough to correct your error and trade that honda for a 6 or speed6 .
maybe it's just a local thing, but i'm seeing many more mazda's around lately compared to when i got my car almost a couple years ago. and there have been a couple different people posting on this forum mentioning that the mazda that was configured the way they wanted was in short supply and would have to be ordered from the factory so maybe the upper trim models with a 5 speed are getting snatched up. if that's the case, i'd think the deals that some were able to get may be harder to find.
i was asking about the new one with the 3.6l engine, much more stylish interior, etc... but instead it went back to bashing the domestic *sigh it wasn't bashing at all, just reporting the facts on my previous experiences with the chevrolet/classic. is it possible for a player that has averaged 5 homeruns a year for the past 10 years to suddenly have a year where they hit 45?? sure (if they take steroids). but, not likely.
see, there's the problem. there is nothing in this class that is a totally bad choice across the board for everyone . you need to let others chevrolet positive opinions about vehicles which don't interest you without responding with sarcasm. the vehicle does not appeal to you? okay, that's fine - and neither does your vehicle appeal some others. that's the way the cookie bounces and it's no skin off your teeth... or something like that. it's all about personal preference and it's all good. the sarcasm and derision need to be left out of this because responses of that nature do nothing but derail the conversation. that would make this discussion much more helpful to shoppers which - i do believe - is the overall purpose of the forums.
understood, but i was just trying to reiterate in an entertaining way that people shouldn't be so quick to assume a car can improve by "lightyears" all of a sudden, from one year to the next. cars can improve, a lot, especially with major redesigns, but to assume all the sins of the past will be eradicated "all of a sudden" seems to me, wishful thinking.
that's good - but let's drop the sarcasm and the under-the-heel-grinding. those kinds of things are what continually knock this discussion off track. i'm not just talking to you.
i enjoyed this forum. and, i want a similar high-energy discussion on cute-utes. i have already created a new forum .
a car can jump lightyears all of a sudden; check out hyundai and most of its lineup. check out ford's ford compared to the aged ford. saturn saturn vs. saturn l-series sedan. i tend to believe its not wishful thinking; its what we should expect. if a company does not fulfill on its duties, shame on them. but damning a company for a what it was a decade ago isn't quite fair in my opinion. and, i'm not sure if i've been a major part of the problem or not as far as getting this discussion derailed; i've been trying to keep things on track with new subjects, etc... if i've caused i problem, i apologize to the host, the posters, and the silent readers of this forum.
saturn saturn represents a new direction for saturn. it is in total a new car for saturn, and the little plastic unique cars are replaced by gm basic design, or the epsilon for everyone car. it is a good sound car. why not just call it an opel, who knows. the more interesting stuff come to us in a couple years as the chevrolet and chevrolet. how good are the aussie cars for reliability and performance -- anyone here know. it is basically the new stuff. the new cts to me personally is a wait and see. i am not wanting any of these cars to grow, be a cts or honda, but that is life. we are all super-sized now from mcd's to autos. i personally see the epsilon, in its many flavors as competing with the rest, and winning some hearts along the way. the saturn xr is entertaining to drive. i do not expect it change the game completly however, as it is doubtful to have the same resale value as brand x from japan, and the reliability being equal or better is a question mark. don't know what to say other than i guess one could sort of judge reliablity performance by that of pontiac, as it has been released earlier and has some miles of actual use now. so when the new consumer report comes out, we have a couple or so years to go by. as for giant leaps, the rwd from down under still look to have the most impact. if they do not get the chevrolet and all those pontiacs right, all hell may break in the press. i understand many are impressed with the sky and solstice. well, they do look impressive. wish more cars had good looks these day. hot-humid in california, blahhh, we aren't use to this l
i am in total agreement. how difficult would it have been for honda to add a mp3 interface ? mazda needs to be slapped around for this also. perhaps the 07 might have an interface, but i know my 05 doesn't. i went aftermarket and got a tape deck emulator and now i've got two mp3 plug ins that sound really good (much better than those radio station ones). since i did the install, it cost like $40, and took about an hour to do, so no big deal, but since mazda's are generally marketed to youthful people it is amazing that they haven't added this feature earlier.
nissan nissan and saturn saturn: canyon road cage match pretty interesting stuff that buyer's would like to know. considering how much emphasis nissan put into improving their suspension, it's strange that they did not put very good side bolsters on their seats.
a car can jump lightyears all of a sudden i agree. one thing honda and toyota did thats undisputable was to raise the bar. everybody else was forced to catch up fast to stay competive. and because of honda and toyota efforts, we all have better cars.
you haven't. i appreciate your efforts to keep this conversation on track.
it all washes over time... a 2006 ford sel v6 based on edmunds tmv is $17,080 while a 2006 honda ex (4-cylinder) is worth $20,027. in a few years, the ford will be worth next to nil while the honda will still have some value when it comes time to trade-in/sell it. from a pure value standpoint at purchase time, i don't think anyone can beat the hyundai.
although these cars did not change overnight, they did change and for the better. i remember when honda were first brought to the us. they were really pieces of junk and you could see the rust bubbling under the paint after three or four years. the sheet metal was about as thin as a tuna can. i had a 1973 toyota corona which i kept for only one year as it was impossible to get the idle right. it had to be set so high to keep running with the air conditioner on that when you turned off the air conditioner it would be close to 2,000 rpms. turn the air on and it would drop down to about 800 rpms. several dealers could not fix so i got rid of it and took a beating. now look at where honda and toyota are. granted, it certainly wasn't a quick turnaround but slow but sure. i personally think that the domestics can come around if enough effort is put forth and consumers keep open minds and don't mindlessly follow the leaders.
actually the best bet is the honda se v6 for price in / out. hyundai is a deal, if you keep it for ten years. l
in a few years, the ford will be worth next to nil while the honda will still have some value when it comes time to trade-in/sell it. i think you exxagerate with the "next to nil..." comment. my guess would be that the difference in value is likely to be the same or less than the initial difference of $3000. when the honda is worth $3000, the ford will likely still be worth more than $0.
no problem; i know i tend to get carried away sometimes, so i was just making sure!
take a 3000 difference in initial price and add 6.5% sales tax which would total $3195 now compound at 6% interest over 5 years which would total $4275. when you add that number into the depreciation difference the ford would probably hold up rather well.
i'm picking this thread up after a couple of days absence, so it might have been addressed. i have an 05 chevrolet maxx with the 3.5 ohv engine. i think the technology was far from obsolete (obsolescent, maybe) and i like the engine a lot. gets as good mileage as my 4 cylinder kia-- 33 mpg on the road-- 22 around town, lighter and lower than an ohc engine, 7000 mile indicated oil changes on the olm, unlike japanese (and korean) cars it's real world mileage approached the old epa figures (most gm cars didn't have the drops from 07-08 that japanese cars did). true, it's noisier and thrashier at higher rpms but low end torque is good and i don't get that far up on the tach anyway. i think gm finally got tired of the tirades of the likes of car and driver constantly putting them down. rip-- ohv engines, you will be missed. the last gen 'bu sedan was unremarkable, but i didn't mind the back clip on the maxx (won't defend the front). i'm sure that the new chevrolet is better in every way but i'll miss the hatch and find the new one looks disconcertingly like a mitsubishi diamante from the rear.
i think gm finally got tired of the tirades of the likes of car and driver constantly putting them down. rip-- ohv engines, you will be missed. i think the ohv engines are the ones gm is using for development of electronically actuated valves w/o a cam in the motor at all. that would pretty much be the ultimate vtec.
i think engines are the same. both have 11.7" front ventilated disc and 11.5" rear disc brakes. there's only a 82 lbs difference. very little difference in mpgs. are these models twins or share the same platform?
what makes you think, or state here, that japan and korean cars do not match or exceed the epa fuel figures? i have no problem doing so with a new v6 honda. i have gotten up to 29 mpg and will likely do better once broken in. let's see a 200-300k mile engine, the break in must be at 50k and i do not drive conservative to get the mpg, this is brisk off the line and good speed on the freeways. at 60 or 70, the sohc is good to go faster with ease, and not throw a fit in doing so. just smooth and sweet sounds coming under the full on acceleration period. and yes, the 3.5 ohv is perhaps the best v6 of its type i have seen. i am impressed with it in some ways. good torque. once up to speed, and in need of more speed, as in passing at higher speeds, i'll still take the honda engine. or the dohc 3.6 of gm, which is great. something about the way the honda like to rev. well, this is my first honda car, but i owned a honda 70sl and 100 bike some time ago. ok, a long time a go, gosh i feel so old. i could live with the 3.5 ohv engine in a car. i tested a pontiac and did not like the electric assist steering. the engine was the 3.5 mated to a four speed. test drove the saturn xe with that combo. it is ok. the xr is so much better though performance wise. for sound, i like the ohc engines in the v6, but i guess i never got a catback muffler by borla on any of my ohv v6 engined cars from gm i owned. they all just made that blurping funny sound on launch time. l
i read today in the c/d 2008 preview that the saturn will come with an i4 for 2008. i think that's good news, as not everyone who is looking for a mid-sized sedan wants/needs a v6 (i'm one of them). it should also drop the saturn below $20k and make it price-competitive (at least msrp) with the korean 4-bangers. speaking of which, i noticed today that with current incentives and a discount down to invoice, a very well equipped kia chrysler can be had for around $15k. so the new honda looks really good... but is it $7000+ better than an kia?
well i bought an '07 honda se v6 for around $22.5k, some months ago. i assume it can be had for less right now. have no idea what the honda i4 then would be priced at, but let's guess it to be currently around $19k for the se i4, or less? considering you are getting a honda compared to a kia and the resale should be about double that of the kia in five to ten years time, i would say the bargain goes to the honda. if you keep the kia until death (of the car) or ten years time, the kia is a pretty good deal indeed. that said, in ten years i could still sell a honda for some good money. just trying to be helpful, l
saturn i4? i would wait an get the brother car, the new chevrolet = better looking interior, and with some luck and bit more room inside. the saturn saturn xr is a kicker drive of the bunch. if going base, plastic hub cap car, just go with chevrolet or pontiac, imho. l
when i said "the new honda", i meant the 2008 honda. good luck getting any incentives or even much of a discount on the new honda for awhile. that means the base chrysler will start at, by published reports, about $21k. add automatic, 17" alloys, and upgraded interior trim (ala kia chrysler with the appearance package and esc package) and you are probably looking at $23k at least for an honda i4 equipped like that. so i was probably being optimistic when i said a $7000 difference--probably will be more than that, at least for the next few months while all the "gotta-have-a-2008-honda" buyers are satiated. resale of an honda double that of an kia in 10 years' time? maybe. as in, something like $2500 vs. $5000. you'd still be up several thousand bucks with the kia. and i didn't even include the extra taxes or interest charges on the honda. no, the bargain clearly goes to the kia. but if you gotta have that extra power, or spiffy interior (although the kia's interior is pretty darn nice too), or all the hondaness (don't know what else to call it), or extras like factory nav, and you don't have a better way to use the extra bucks, go for it!
don't know about the kia, but the hyundai, imho, is a good car, but not up there at the top. the steering, handling, suspension, engine, interior, and such are 85% to perhaps 90% there, but not quite the same as the top competitors. the car doesn't handle and drive like a honda v6. anyway, just go get an '07 se v6 for around $22k, or the i4 for much less money. i would say the i4 16" wheels are more than large enough for the i4 engine version. why would you want the 17"? and the interior of the se i4 is very nice. then there is the nissan. i would wait for toyota until 2008 or 2009 to be sure bugs are not remaining. if looking at price only, the korean cars do have price, with good performance, if perhaps not top line just yet. it all sorta equals out, and depends on what ya want from a car. the saturn xr is pretty cool, but the price is a bit much, if looking for the value overall type of thing, as in the price in/out. just a sweet engine and tranny in the thing. isn't kia the name of radio shack audio upper line products, after the realistic name ( maybe it replaced it? ) you could nickname the car opie ! or is that an opel car? l
you never pay sticker on cars, be it honda 2008 or kia 2008. enjoy the drive , l
if they're selling fast, you will, or within 500 of it
no, i would never pay sticker for a car, but for the short term you'll pay much closer to sticker on a 2008 honda than you will on an kia. for one thing, forget about rebates or to-buyer incentives on the new honda for awhile. and the steep discounts you're seeing now on the close-'em-out old honda? forget those, too. it's a new car, and ballgame, with the honda now. as the guy from men's wearhouse says, "i guarantee it."
i had the same problem when i bought my nissan. the dealers just weren't having any problem moving them off the lot, and wouldn't come down much. some of the dealerships i sent emails to wouldn't even respond. but, i knew it would be like that going in.
have you researched the kia? you might be surprised. the automotive press' consensus is that it's a better car than the hyundai, at least in i4 trim. it has received strong reviews from mt (a 2007 coty finalist), c/d (ranked just below the honda and new nissan in the last mid-sizer comparo, with the comment that it out-toyota'd the toyota; and cr has it (the i4) ranked above the hyundai (and the toyota le, and subaru, and mazda, and ford/mercury etc.) and one point behind the honda. it handles better than the hyundai, has a nicer interior, has a 5at vs. the 4at on the hyundai i4s, and is shorter than the hyundai yet has almost as much interior room. so while the kia is not seen as being the best of the class, it is viewed as being a very good mid-sized sedan and superior to some cars that are seen as standards in this class, e.g. the toyota. and of course it has the long kia warranty. that makes it an intriguing buy for someone who doesn't mind paying about $7000 or more less for a car that doesn't have every attribute of an honda or nissan, but is a solid, well-rounded mid-sized car.
i would say the i4 16" wheels are more than large enough for the i4 engine version. why would you want the 17"? wheel size diameter is an aesthetics issue, for the most part. the only time its not is when companies put random obscure tire sizes like 205/60r16 on their vehicles to crush any hopes of actually finding any kind of a performance tire. most other vehicles use a 205/55r16 that can be found in types from mild to wild.
i agree a 16" tire is fine for a family sedan. but with the kia chrysler, kia makes you buy a package that includes 17" alloys in order to get abs and esc. :mad: that's the one thing that really bugs me about the kia. and the fact that the iihs hasn't done a side crash test on it yet.
have you researched the kia? you might be surprised. the automotive press' consensus is that it's a better car than the hyundai, at least in i4 trim. i had an kia for a rental car a few months ago, i found it adequate in every way while carrying 4 adults on in-town trips in michigan. i also had a hyundai v6 that felt powerful, if a little bland, but totally adequate to run around cincy. neither vehicle made me want to run out and buy it right then (of course the honda didn't either, my folks did instead lol).
my wife has the four with add-on (but nice) leather, the appearance package--crippled dic, nice interior lighting, 17 inch michelins-- for $16,100. taking off the differences that should figure in at mid-fourteens for a base ls with automatic. we shopped the ford/mercury and hyundai four most carefully before buying friend just bought a hyundai, not sure what he paid as he had two cars to trade and he might not be as frugal as i am in driving a bargain. just drove his car for a few blocks and it seems more comfortable. frankly i'd prefer the hyundai (short drive) and last gen chevrolet maxx (my personal drive) when it comes to toyota. my wife doesn't mind the kia a bit for toyota but i'm roughly a foot taller. the kia is only about a cubic foot smaller than the hyundai but it has more headroom. who needs eight inches of above the head room if five inches is adequate. more important to get the leg room. the kia's platform is closer to the hyundai than a hyundai (struts v. links), but seems sportier in handling (not important to me)-- this is probably my 17 inch michelins v. his 16 inch michelin energies (from experience energies are lousy oem tires at least in my 01 hyundai). as far as the gm electric steering. it's part of the reason why gm cars got good gas mileage. vagueness and expensive repairs were negatives. i don't mind the gm steering at all but can notice it after i drive the kia. same thing with the engine. doesn't bother me but the kia's four is smoother and revs better than the chevrolet's six (which does get as good mileage), so if i was doing short term comparisons it would bother me. i haven't done a careful check but i think gm cars 08 epa estimated mileages v. 07 has gone down less than the typical gm car. now maybe somebody can do the research and prove me right or wrong on this.
the appearance package--crippled dic, nice interior lighting, 17 inch michelins-- for $16,100. the appearance package has nice interior lighting, 17" tires and what ?
dic= driver information center lol long night
no oil life monitor (shared with lots of cars), no mpg: huh? hyundai owners-- a quick drive of my friends hyundai indicated only one trip computer-- did i get that right? if so, that's about as dim as missing the mpg readout. btw-- kia figures miles to empty so gas mileage is easily doable.
if you mean a trip computer vs a trip odometer, the trip computer does have the ability to show avg mpg.
i think you're saying... that the hyundai has a trip computer that shows average mpg (the kia doesn't have this)-- the computer in most cars is usually optimistic though. that's why i need two trip odometers. one for measuring trips, one to accurately measure mileage between fillups. unless my quick look at the hyundai was in err, it looked to me like the hyundai only had one trip odometer. correct?
ya know it is pretty simple math to do in one's own head. once on empty, you have say three gallons left, and you get 30 mpg, it has to be up to 90 miles left. not a bad thing though to have a little computer to let ya know from a half tank, how far you may be able to go. but then again, you become one with the car and just can do it in your head after a few months time. and the new cars can usually do some 360 to 450 miles on a tank anyway, so you should be close to a gas station at one point or another - just a thought. l
why not get the 'o7 then? if you do not need the larger 2008, just go for the 2007 and get the deal. you may avoid the first year out blues too. i hear of some 6-4-3 engine now for the v6. sounds like possible trouble to me. and i do not need the car to be an inch taller, nor three inches longer, as it is pretty big already. and yes, the new one may be $500 to no more than $1,000 off, if it becomes popular. new car, ya never know. i think i have seen a couple of those optimas around. i don't think kia is selling too many in my area, though other styles, like their suv and minivans seem to sell here. guess it is a good car. i did not research it, or take any test drives in one. you may want to test drive a v6 se honda some day on a twisty road. and it has very good passing speed and a good launch off the line. interior is first class. that said, there is a lot of good mid-sized cars of all brands out there, and little if any are rated anywhere near poor these days. seems you can not go too wrong. close-out i4 hyundai for $16k = wow, that is priced low :shades: with 27% going to fleet, resale may suck a bit. l
i live in the midwest. few twisty roads here. and as i mentioned a couple of posts ago, i don't need the power of a v6. so i'm not willing to pay more for the honda v6, whether it's a 2007 or 2008. and to me the 2007 honda is not that great a car, for what i'm looking for in a mid-sized car--and certainly not worth paying thousands more of my money than for a car like the kia, hyundai, or hyundai. i'll be keeping my next car in the family for at least 10 years, so i'm more concerned about up-front costs than resale value. also, i'm not concerned about not seeing the same car that i drive on every street corner. in fact, i kind of like the fact that i don't see my current drive, an hyundai gt 5-door, everywhere i look.
do people in the mid-west drive subaru's? seems like all wheel drive in snow country would be a good thing. just a thought. l
also, i'm not concerned about not seeing the same car that i drive on every street corner. in fact, i kind of like the fact that i don't see my current drive, an hyundai gt 5-door, everywhere i look. all those honda you see on every corner were bought for good reasons. maybe there are a few good reasons why you don't see so many elantras. how many "other people" are driving a certain car should have no affect on what you buy, one way or the other, imo. that's allowing others to have influence on what you drive.
do people in the mid-west drive subaru's? seems like all wheel drive in snow country would be a good thing. just a thought. people in the midwest originally from other places buy subarus :p i don't know, we got awd and a wagon with a manual transmission for no price penalty and very slight fuel economy penalty over the honda, which was our benchmark at the time. the subaru feels much sportier to me than the honda, but the honda seems to have much more room in the back seat, even with the infant seat in the middle. oh and the latch system works better in the honda too. the subaru handling is a lot more fun, it is phenomenal in the snow, and can tote 2700 lbs. i think once we get into child seats from infant seats, the differences will be less significant.
the subaru is pretty good looking. well compared to some rather odd looking stuff from subaru over the years, the new subaru is 100% improved. :shades: nice looks, and all wheel drive sound like a good combo for snow country. then there is the ford / mercury, which as posted here over and over again available in all wheel drive. i prefer the mercury look over the ford, but both are good ( well big butt, but good enough ) looking cars. guess the new mazda is coming soon? seems like in the past they overpriced them, then had to discount them. sort of an old gm thing to do. oh no, here come the replies on that one. i would hope gm people all have a sense of humor. during ownership of those cars, it was the only thing which kept me from exploding from time to time, with every service shop en devour to remedy this n' that. so, i guess it is ok to rib them a little. l
how many "other people" are driving a certain car should have no affect on what you buy why not? nothing wrong with wanting to stand out, or be different.
so the fact that few people thought enough about your car, to buy it, is a positive thing? buying a car because no one else wants it, just doesn't seem logical to me.
you say few, but are probably taking about 10's of thousands. it's just nice to be different, stand out a little. i don't think it should be the deciding factor, but its also nice to not have the same cookie cutter car that everybody else is driving. and probably because everybody else is driving. some people lead, some people follow.
i agree, going with the "norm" has always been a turnoff for me which is why i'm a bit against the camcord. on the other hand i have to realize that this isn't normal behavior by definition. the vast majority just go with one of the big two over and over again. this has resulted in the honda being far less ahead of the curve than it was twenty years ago (toyota was always well done but conservative), but you can't blame honda for doing what's in their financial interest. this doesn't apply to the present generation honda which is a big change and (could be argued) quite daring. guess i am getting old because i for one don't like that digital dash. i do like the fit, however, so that shows that i'm not intrinsically anti-honda. too bad they're so rare on the lots.
i think it gets down to wants and needs. when we bought the subaru in '05, it wasn't the run away sales leader by any means, and no one bought the subaru wagon, they all bought the subaru. personally, something with big heavy squishy tires and a raised center of gravity, and "dual duty" suspension was totally unappealing to me, so we went with the regular subaru wagon. as an added benefit, we can actually find our car in the parking lot. at this time we were also cross shopping the honda, but no wagon version, no awd and proud pricing kept us away. when i lived in ca, i had the only contour se for miles around, but when i moved to mi, it started getting lost in parking lots too.
this doesn't apply to the present generation honda which is a big change and (could be argued) quite daring. guess i am getting old because i for one don't like that digital dash. try it for a bit before deciding you don't like it. it is very well set up for older drivers. it is a form of horizon display...the numbers appear at optical infinity, or on the "horizon." this is great for older drivers (or anyone near-sighted that requires corrective lenses for distance) because it reduces/eliminates the time needed to go from looking at something far away to something close up and back again (its called accommodation). the toyota, the inisght, and the honda all have similar display technologies.
you know, i see very few nsxs or 300zs or rx8s driving around, but i understand they are fine cars. just because there are few cars of a certain model driving around, doesn't mean no one wants them. could be that only so many were available for sale in a given year, rather than 400,000 a year. and, some people like the fact that they'll see a few dozen of the same kind of car they drive every time they go for a drive. that happened to me a lot when i owned a grand caravan--they're all over the place. to each his own. one of the reasons this discussion is not as fun as it could be is that it's nearly impossible to say something about why you like your car without having someone beat you over the head about it, and tell you how stupid you are for thinking that way. :sick:
yes, subarus are pretty popular in minnesnowta, and if i lived outside the inner honda i would be tempted to get an awd vehicle (but probably not the subaru, due to reasons i've noted earlier). but snow removal is an art form in the twin cities, and there's been only one time in the past 20 years--the halloween blizzard of 1991, 30" of snow, when i really could have used an awd vehicle.
so the fact that few people thought enough about your car, to buy it, is a positive thing? i don't think that's what people were expressing...i interpreted what they wrote as saying that there were several compelling reasons to buy car-x, and the fact that they were less common than camcords was a bonus. there were many reasons why i chose to buy a mazda which among the bigger reasons were that the hatchback was more practical since it had a much bigger loading area than a trunk, great handling including its amazing brakes, had good reliability according to consumer reports and jd powers, and it was thousands less than what i could get an honda for (another reason less popular can be a huge positive). but i did consider it a bonus that the mazda was nowhere near as common. it's nice when i walk out of a store and see my car as an attractive standout in the sea of vanilla-ish camcords and bloated suv's.
it's nice when i walk out of a store and see my car as an attractive standout in the sea of vanilla-ish camcords and bloated suv's. my sentiments exactly, zzzoom6. the only difference is we have a 2007 sel awd ford.
"don't know about the kia, but the hyundai, imho, is a good car, but not up there at the top. the steering, handling, suspension, engine, interior, and such are 85% to perhaps 90% there, but not quite the same as the top competitors." you're correct & i agree with you that the hyundai is not up there yet although steering, handling, suspension, engine & interior issues may just be a matter of perspective but don't forget that the 2007 se hyundai is at least $5,000 cheaper than the $22k v6 honda mentioned here. with that comparison, where the hyundai is about 85%-90% of the v6 honda, i'd say paying for a hyundai, say the 2007 se, at an objective price that's about 70% of the v6 honda is a pretty good deal to me :shades: of course, people with moolah will certainly don't mind to spend more for a car with a perceived higher quality.
it's nice when i walk out of a store and see my car as an attractive standout in the sea of vanilla-ish camcords and bloated suv's. it's also nice to walk up to my car in the parking lot knowing it's what i consider to be the best midsize sedan in this segment. i'm certainly not going to buy a car i like less, because there are fewer of them around. :confuse:
nobody said anything about buying a car they liked less, just that having something different than the masses can be a factor in a purchase. not everybody is like you and doesn't automaticly go with the honda (not a critisizm, the honda is a fine choice). some people get torn between a couple different cars, and something like uniqueness can be a factor. a lot of people will rush out and get the new 08 honda for the same reason..........not many other on the road yet.
as was expressed well by someone else, the uniqueness factor really wasn't part of my buying decision. but it is something i like about my current car. if i bought a car based on how unique it is, i guess my top choice in this class would be the mitsubishi or verona. :p
test drove the honda before my wife bought the kia. more money for less car. seemed noticeably smaller than my 01 hyundai. wouldn't completely dis the digital speedometer because what does a ten minute drive really tell you about living with the car. we still would have carefully considered a fit but they only had one on the lot and wouldn't let us drive it unless we looked very, very serious.
fit but they only had one on the lot and wouldn't let us drive it unless we looked very, very serious. for some reason honda is limiting the production on the fit. i can't imagine why, it looks like a pretty good car.
my guess is, less profit margin than on civics and honda.
true, but it also helps them meet cafe standard because they're allowed to average thier entire product line.
with the honda having a higher epa average than the fit, and the honda i4s with good numbers, i really don't think they need the fit's numbers. there could also simply be a plant capacity problem with the fit, since it's sold around the world. the new u.s. plant will help there. but, back to mid-sized sedans...
well it is higher quality. the hyundai is, like you say a cheaper car than is the honda. no one is going to give away a car which identical to the top cars available at a fraction of the price. you know, the old if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is. and take a look at what intellichoice has to say on the different cars. pay a little more up front, have the top line stuff, then trade-in or sell the car for a higher price -- which one is the bargain at that point? l
in this segment, cookie-cutter is the norm. actually depending on where one lives car-x can be cookie cutter and be very high-end. in certain parts of the country rolls-royce are cookie-cutter cars, but i digress. i honestly don't care how many of the brand of car i drive are on the road. bro-in-law who does much more extensive research than me when buying a car, just ended up with a basic honda. the reasons? they are the same reasons i would buy one over the competition. not to mention honda is giving away the '07s.
intellichoice is very flawed. they ignore rebates in calculating costs, this overstates the costs of any car which commonly has a rebate available. they also ignore the value of discounted or free financing, when that is available. for example the mazda has been available with $1750-$2000 rebates since nov 2006. intellichoice ignores this and shows a phoney ~$2000 difference in depreciation between honda and mazda. i also found some flaws in their maintenance costs. for example on my car, mazda, their detailed maintenance costs mistakenly indicate that it does not have extended life coolant and does not have extended life trans fluid. they also project tire replacement cost at about $80 more than an honda, i am pretty sure i can get the same tire price whether they are being put on an honda or a mazda. their insurance costs also have nothing to do with my reality. my insurance costs vary little, whatever model i choose and are far lower (about 1/3) than what they list. at most my insurance cost, from one model to another, might vary by maybe $200 or so over 5 years. i am not as familiar with the hyundai, but i bet the intellichoice figures are just as full of errors for that car.
i guess none of these errors apply to the honda, right? people choose to believe what they want to believe.
it's not about belief...it's about noticing that intellichoice is flawed. you can assume that these flaws affect each car equally, but once the credibility of a method of calculating cost of ownership is shown to be incorrect for one car model on many different levels, the conclusions from this methodology are discredited. but if you want to believe in a descredited model, you can choose to do so... :confuse:
i think edmunds tmv is flawed as well. they show a tmv of $18690 for a mazda ve auto that you can buy in chicago area for between 16500-17000 any time. i actually see people that think they got a great deal if they buy for 500 less than edmunds tmv. you'd think they would be closer than they are. all they have to do is read the their own forums to get closer than they are.
so all these people who shop by comparing tmv and "true cost to own" are just going on flawed numbers. :surprise: if the numbers are flawed for one car, they are likely to be flawed for the other too. does anyone do all these calculations before buying a car? even if some other midsize car would cost me $50/month less to own (very unlikely), i doubt it would change my mind about which car to buy. since i keep my cars more than 10 years, my true cost to own will be less than most, whatever car i choose.
i agree to a point. after reading a lot of the forums it does seem that a lot of people do look at some these calculators etc. as gospel. they should just be made award that the numbers may really not fit their region/locale. i just gave a 1993 lesabre to kars for kids and i plan on keeping the car i just bought for at least 7-10 years so depreciation doesn't matter so much to me either.
i guess none of these errors apply to the honda, right? people choose to believe what they want to believe. no some of us choose to think for ourselves and do a little checking on numbers like those reported by (un)intellichoice. you tell me...when was the last time honda were available with $2000 rebates, that were ignored by (un)intellichoice? not to mention when was the last time you saw honda advertised at $5000 below msrp? the point is all the errors are in favor of honda, at least when compared to the mazda. it is the honda that is shown with lower maintenance costs, lower insurance costs, and lower depreciation all of which are questionable. if folks are going to throw this sort of garbage cost analysis on here, they should at least be willing to do a little work to defend the numbers, after the flaws have been pointed out again and again and again...that is assuming they actually believe the figures that intellichoice comes up with. explain to me how i end up buying a mazda at a few nundred above invoice, when there is a $1750 rebate? explain to me how the 5 year maintenance cost of my mazda is going to come to $1700, but the honda is going to be around $1200? according to the maintenance schedule, all i will need to do is change oil, rotate tires, and do one replacement of an air filter and a cabin filter. pretty sure that is going to come to maybe $600 total and then maybe another $600 if tires need replacing.
i plan on keeping the car i just bought for at least 7-10 years so depreciation doesn't matter so much to me either. even if you do keep your car for 10 years depreciation does make a difference. i got $5000 for my 12 year old honda (92 ex). i doubt i could have got that for another brand.
you tell me...when was the last time honda were available with $2000 rebates, that were ignored by (un)intellichoice? not to mention when was the last time you saw honda advertised at $5000 below msrp? you can haggle plenty off the msrp. there doesn't have to be a rebate. the point is all the errors are in favor of honda, sure they are.
your '92 honda must have been in exceptional condition to get that much for it, correct? i'll bet you could get at least $2000 for another brand, e.g. mazda 626. but what if the 626 cost, say, $5000 less than the honda (that is about today's differential). compounded over 12 years at 5% interest, that's nearly $9000. not including any extra sales taxes, which in some states would add several hundred bucks onto the original cost. so you really didn't come out ahead financially with the honda. but so what? if that were your goal, you probably wouldn't have chosen the honda to begin with, right? you enjoyed the honda for those 12 years, and that was worth something to you.
well in california there is a difference between a mazda and honda both new and used in trying to sell them. they have to deep discount to move the mazda out. used they sell for less. when buying, i took the "price everyone is paying as per intellichoice" to the honda dealership and go that price on my se v6 , plus they gave me what i wanted on the pt crusier trade in. i can not recall the exact difference on the trade-in, but it was between the $1,200 to $1,500 range on trade-in price and discounts, as being higher to get the saturn xr which is an equal price wise to the se v6 honda. saturn went lower on the car by, but had a low trade-in allowance. i did not price the mazda to buy. did see some on a lot for $5k off sticker which made them $22k. overpriced, then discounted means nothing. they had too much dust on the hood. you can get the honda back then for $22.5k and it has the good resale value. btw, the new miata is hot, if it was not for a too narrow seats in the car. l
that had to be one exceptional shape '92. i like honda and their reputation. it's just that i liked the way the mazda drove better and the features for price equation. honestly, i realize i might have a couple more issues and maybe a few hundred dollars more in cost over the lifetime of the vehicle. but, i wanted a fairly inexpensive third vehicle and something fun to drive. i really like features i got with the mazda for $16500 like all disc brakes, 17" alloys, 6 disc changer, both front windows that down/up auto(a feature that i didn't realize i would appreciate so much) and the overall looks of the car among other things. if it is worth $1000 10 years from i will be pleased as i will still be money ahead because of initial price and compounding the difference ala backy's comments.
i'll bet you could get at least $2000 for another brand, e.g. mazda 626. considering mazda's average reliability, i think i would have had more problems with the 626, and probably wouldn't have wanted to keep it for 12 years, which would defeat the purpose of saving money up front. and i don't believe a mazda 6 equipped like the honda v6 honda would be $5000 less. you make it sound like you can get $5000 off msrp on a 6, but nothing off on an honda, which is just not true. i got $3000 off msrp in 03, which was the first year of the redesign. i'm sure i could do better on an 07 honda right now.
a very close friend of mine has a 1994 honda ex (white, sedan, grey cloth interior). it has been wrecked a couple of times, has 199k miles on it. has an alpine cd player (stock everything else), runs like a top, and everything seems in decent condition except for the driver's window which is slow and squeals when rolling it up. he parked it on a fairly busy road and put a for-sale sign in it thursday, asking $4,000. he had five calls as of sunday. he's not intending to sell it just yet, but he does want a bigger car soon and was testing the waters as to what he could expect to get for it. he said after that many calls he thought he'd ask $4,500 for it when he does sell in a few months. not bad for a 13/14 year old car with 200k miles.
last mazda cars i looked at cost more or the same as the honda, since the initial price was so jacked up. seems like a really good car in some ways, and one can say they have the top rated car for handling within its class with the mazda, so it certainly is not a bad choice in many ways. the $1,500 to $2,000 off sticker is easy to do on honda close out honda right now. plenty of dealerships, if at first ya don't toyota. as for reliability, there is nothing certain in life. lot's of owners do seem very happy with mazda, including durability, so who knows. all the cars are getting better these days. on the mazda site they list the cars damaged in the sea accident and are not suppose to be sold as new. does this imply they can be sold as slightly sea washed used??? best to check that used car id number. l
the $1,500 to $2,000 off sticker is easy to do on honda close out honda right now. plenty of dealerships, if at first ya don't toyota. seems like $1,000-$2,000 off of invoice is pretty common in honda right now during closeout time.
so, he offers to sell @ $4k then what? i hope he accepts the $4k offer at that point and tells the buyer about the accidents. no one really offered near or at the $4k mark, i take it? it is amazing the resale value on honda/toyota. they are the best in resale. l
let's not get carried away now.
no, he's not prepared to sell it right now. he needed to know how much he could afford to spend on another car, so he was seeing if he really could get $4k for it. there are some cars in the paper here that are asking similar prices. i saw a 95 honda chrysler, ~140k mi, asking $4,900 in the birmingham news a few weeks ago. whether or not they get it, i dunno. i hope they do, since i've got a 1996 chrysler with 175k! by the way, the accident will be pretty obvious on my friend's car, since the airbag repair job on the steering wheel isn't perfect looking.
not bad for a 13/14 year old car with 200k miles. exactly, saying depreciation doesn't mean anything after 10 years is false. honda hold their value for a long time, if you keep them in good condition. if you wash your car every week, and keep maintenance records, buyers are impressed by this and are willing to pay more.
any car in good condition has value after 10+ years. the value is in line with the initial sales price--but it never goes to zero, for a car in good condition. it is often said that you don't get something for nothing. so doesn't it seem odd that an honda buyer should expect to get the benefits often associated with an honda, e.g. superior reliability, resale value, and driving experience, at no extra cost? of course there is a cost. but you have to weigh it against the benefits received.
it must just be me, but i can't imagine parting with 4-5 grand for a car with 200k miles and 14yrs old. bassed on kbb, it sounds about right, but i wouldn't pay that for any car that old and with that many miles.
it must just be me, but i can't imagine parting with 4-5 grand for a car with 200k miles and 14yrs old. if you had seen my 12 year old honda, including under the hood, i think you would say it was worth $5000. you could have changed the oil, and only got a little dust on your hands, because there was no grease or oil anywhere on it. i once took the seat covers completely off, washed them thoroughly, and put them back on. it was an easy car to maintain, so i enjoyed keeping it up.
it must just be me, but i can't imagine parting with 4-5 grand for a car with 200k miles and 14yrs old it's not just you. no way would i buy a car with that many miles. and that price tag adds insult to injury. a ticking time bomb of automotive aggravation in my book. shoot for what.... $10,000? you can get an hyundai with a great warranty and mega air bags. duh.
i doubt it. 200k and 12 years is just to much for that kind of money. and for the sake of an agrument, i'm not disputing the value, just saying i wouldn't buy it. i must confess though, the way honda vehicles hold their value is amazing. according to kbb, my '02 honda that i paid 14900 for with 115k miles on it is still worth almost 10k. but i'll add, the big advantage people tend to forget about with resale value is insurance. i do get a degree of satisfaction knowing that if i wreck that high milage, aging honda, the insurance company will be writing a pretty good size chek. :surprise:
i have 175k miles on my 1996 honda. original transmission, alternator, even original brake shoes on the rears. this car has had oil changes every 3k miles, major maintenance done every 30k miles, and a timing belt at 88k miles (it'll need one at 178k). i'd probably ask $4900 for it (just based on my friend getting calls for $4,000 on his 2 year older and 25k extra mileage car). i might get $4,000, maybe $4,500. depends on the particular person seeing my ad. would i buy this car if i were you? heck no. i wouldn't spend that kind of money when i didn't know the person who had driven it for that long. it could've been run for 15k miles between oil changes; nearly overheated a few times, and have a problem eating tires. it could also be in great running condition, with most of its life on the highway getting nearly 30 mpg. at this age though, the question mark would be too big to plop down $5k though, for me. it does make me happy that there are people willing to buy these cars, though. i have one. i just wouldn't be the person buying from me. does that make sense? to be 12 years old this nov. and have 175k miles, i think this car looks pretty dang good though (this is mine). that's my uab parking pass glimmering above the rear-view mirror. i took this picture this evening, after washing it. see more car pictures at carspace.com i put up a few pics on my carspace, from after getting hit/run off the road in june.
i'd say kbb is very optimistic. edmunds' tmv for a 2002 honda ex 4-door (the most expensive honda trim for 2002) with 115k miles in clean condition is only $7740. by that number, in about five years you've lost nearly 50% of the car's value compared to what you paid for it. which is pretty good! in comparision, i had a similar experience with my '01 hyundai, which i sold last year after 5-1/2 years of ownership, for $5900--exactly 50% of its original purchase price. so you and i both lost about 50% of our original investment over about five years (assuming edmunds' tmv figures are closer to the real world, which i have found over time they usually are--for example, their tmv for my hyundai at the time i sold it was $5950.). however, my loss was $5900, and yours (on paper) is over $7000. i point this out only as a caution, that resale value percentages don't tell the whole story. an example closer to this discussion (although my hyundai was classed as a mid-sized car based on interior room): this goes back to the 12-year old honda (a '92) that was sold for $5000. here's a comparison of 12-year old mid-sized cars, a 1995 honda ex-v6 and a mazda 626 es-v6, each with low miles (120,000) and in outstanding condition; for private party sale, according to edmunds' tmvs: honda: $3783 626: $1675 note that this is for a v6 honda (not available in '92), and it's three years after the '92, so some price appreciation should have occured. if this is a representative average for sales prices (with some people doing better and some not as well), then the mazda buyer would need to have paid at least $1200 less up front than the honda buyer to come out ahead financially on the purchase in 12 years, assuming an interest rate of 5% compounded annually. the purpose of this rather lengthy example is to demonstrate that it doesn't take a huge difference in price to make up the resale value between an honda and other makes over a long period of time. and consider now that the price difference between an honda, even the leftover 2007 models, is several thousand dollars compared to cars like the ford/mercury, mazda, kia, and hyundai. thus, if you plan to own your mid-sized car for a long time and think you can save money in the long run due to a car's historically high resale value, it might be something to re-consider.
will have standard abs. i'd say its about time!
sometimes kbb is not optimistic at all. my 92 ex honda, sold 12 years later (137k miles), had a kbb value of $3,850. i guess the guy who bought it didn't look it up in kbb, because he had no problem giving me $5,000 for it.
kelly is asking price, edmunds (which is pretty close to nada in my experience, though it's been several years) is selling price. the only thing i've ever used kelly for was to make window stickers when selling a car. that honda looks in better shape, but the last old japanese car i bought was a 90 toyota with about 140,000 on the clock in about 2000. bought it for my daughter and it's still in family use, although i put way too much repair money in it between transferring it from one daughter to another. anyway they've abused the hell out of it but it's still chugging away at 200,000 miles plus. if memory serves me right i paid slightly over a thousand for it from some guy who used to fix 'em up and sell them from his house (until the subdivision put an end to that scheme). again, it was relatively clean but nothing like the honda.
i did a quick auto trader check on '92 honda. range from $500-7695 with average price of $2974. of course that includes all sorts of rip-off used car dealers.
i have a sensitive back. my 97 toyota is still a good seat. car shopping and found the new toyota and lexus es is horrible for my back. i do have sensitive back and back problem that needs support. don't like the dashboard reflection on the acura. who makes a great seat like they use to in a sedan? help?
yes, i think you got very lucky in terms of who bought your honda. that's why there's a thing called "average" sales prices.
i've found volkswagen's seats to be excellent for support, also those in the honda are good. volvos are also supposed to have good seats, although on the firm side--seems like you need a firm seat though. one of the most comfortable driver's seats i've ever sat in is the one in the 2001-2006 hyundai. it is an 8-way adjustable (manual) seat, quite rare these days, especially on an inexpensive car. it includes a lumbar adjustment, and it's quite firm (especially on the gt, with leather). if you don't mind buying a used car, you might check it out.
sounds to me like you found a real fish. no matter how good that car is, major maintenance items are bound to pop up on this $5000 12 year old car.
although i have been lurking in this forum for quite a while and frankly have read posts that have gotten me livid, i had to respond this time. it should be noted that information concerning mazda's putative 'average' reliability, which unfortunately is bandied about here and elsewhere, is sheer conjecture at best or frequently garnered via debatable methodology. for every 'survey' which claims that honda and toyota produce vehicles that are intrinsically more 'reliable', there are others that report diametrically-opposite findings. despite the fact that i have seen (in action) an honda with an utterly-flawed automatic transmission (and i know that this particular problem is pervasive but obviously not universal across the line) and read about toyota's 'sludge' problem, among other issues, many still choose to reify the products of these two companies with scant problematization. more troubling is the implicit assumption that if you do not purchase the honda or toyota, and i am not accusing anyone here of this 'crime', you are bereft of common sense and intelligence, and somehow are 'stuck' with a car that is devoid of the exaggerated (in my humble opinion, at least) 'merits' of a toyota or an honda. regarding the much-maligned 626, we have got one in my family that is 7+ years old and is still running beautifully, thank you very much. for the record, i really have got my own idiosyncratic qualms regarding the honda and toyota. as such, i personally will not buy either one and this most certainly is my prerogative; people can choose to procure whatever they wish and do not require the validation of others.
who are you trying to impress? not even bill buckley writes like that. you certainly wouldn't/don't talk like that...be honest. p.s. you should try using spell check.
the last time that i checked, writing and speaking well are not something to be ashamed of, or are they? moreover, this is a forum regarding cars and not a 'free-for-all' critique of my writing style. you can skip my post the next time, ok? thanks!
i respect your opinion. and yes, you certainly can buy any car you desire.
apparently you disdain "surveys". how about consumer reports ? last i heard it was well respected when it came to cars. why do honda and toyota do so well there ? any brand of car can have problems and you here more abouth these than anything else. but when you sell more cars and you come out at the top this should mean something. i certainly understand not buying a car after you've had problems with the brand. in the same vein, yes mazda have less reliability than honda. see consumer reports. their parts also usually cost more. how many mazda do you see in a dealer lot with 5 yr/150k on them ? i've been surprised to see some honda with same while looking recently.
seems like $1,000-$2,000 off of invoice is pretty common in honda right now during closeout time. meanwhile $3000-4000 off invoice on the mazda has been pretty common for many months. despite this intellichoice shows both of them with target price of a few hundred above invoice. this equates to maybe a $1000 error for the honda, but about a $3000 error for the mazda. this would mean the depreciation cost difference between the mazda and the honda is overstated by about $2000.
how many mazda do you see in a dealer lot with 5 yr/150k on them ? i've been surprised to see some honda with same while looking recently. well, since honda sells many times the number of cars that mazda does, of course you are going to see a greater number of them. i'm sure, if i looked, i'd see many more honda than mazda in the junkyard too.
how about consumer reports ? last i heard it was well respected when it came to cars. i fear that you may have mis-heard. re: mazda their parts also usually cost more. actually given ford's global platform structure, their parts are actually less expensive, especially with respect to toyota.
well, have you seen any mazda with 150k on any dealer lot. i doubt it.
ford's global platform structure may be irrelevant. i've had many independent service techs tell me mazda parts are more expensive and harder to get.
all, concerning the "average" reliability of the mazda 626... i think these ratings for all cars should be broken down by engine/transmission options, as in most cases the really major problems are limited to just one of these. case in point: the different engine/transmission combinations available on 1998-2002 626's made some of these cars well below average and some well above average in terms of reliability; unfortunately, all that is ever reported is the overall "average" for all 626's. the mazda 2.0l i4 matched with the ford-sourced automatic transmission was plagued with problems. the transmissions required frequent re-builds/replacement, as often as every 30k. on the other hand, the ford-sourced (mazda re-worked) 2.5l v6 paired with the mazda 5-speed manual was an exceptionally reliable (and entertaining) combination. i know, i had one with over 100k. (note: that v6 5-speed mazda with 100k sold for over kbb)
on my 1998 mazda 626, my mechanic pointed out to me that many of the electronic parts were interchangeable with ford. this was evidenced by two distinctly different cable connection types present under the hood (one style for the mazda parts and one style for the ford parts). shoot, i even remember one part having the red three-point mitsubishi logo...
why do folks here have to defend their camcord purchases? can't they just like them better than the others? not everybody calculates the minute financial ramifications involved with every purchase. personally i don't care for half the vehicles in this comparo, so no matter what their attributes are that you would use to persuade me to buy one, i just wouldn't buy one. period. i spent the day in an indoor ford dealership yesterday, hanging with a friend buying an ford, and i wouldn't have given you half of what the stickers on those vehicles asked. ford plasticland. i'll stick with honda.
the idea that because a car is discounted when it's new would make a used, high mileage car hard to sell isn't necessarily true. my old subaru i sold last year after buying the mazda was a 94 subaru gt with 150k miles on it. there were a few dings on the outside, and a couple probs with the cloth in the interior. after buying the 6, i put an ad in craigslist for $5k (a little less than kbb's private party value) and sold it that day for cash! i think i got a bit lucky at how quickly it sold, but the point is that there are other cars that hold their value and sell well besides just honda. and at the time i sold my subaru, those were going for 5k off of msrp for new ones (at least the ones that were left - i bought mine in late november when the next year's models were on the lot). anyways, sometimes when cars less commonly sold that have pretty steep discounts can hold their value suprisingly well.
ford's global platform structure may be irrelevant. i've had many independent service techs tell me mazda parts are more expensive and harder to get. it would seem that mazda's parts do cost less. in the last iihs fender bender test, the mazda was one of the least expensive to repair.
but the point is that there are other cars that hold their value and sell well besides just honda. my point wasn't to say that it was just honda. it just happened to be that my friend has an honda to sell, and i have two of them. i don't have experience with selling back another brand of vehicle, so i wouldn't dare say otherwise. all i am doing is speaking about what i know, and that is the good resale of honda; not poor resale of others. i can't make a solid statement about something i've never experienced firsthand, now can i? my original post about my friend's honda got a lot of heat. i wasn't trying to impart one car's superiority; just that the honda does have good resale. it wasn't a comparison, a put-down to others. folks, we shouldn't have to be so dang defensive around here. not with me, anyways. (this isn't directed at you specifically zzzoom6). some long-time posters i sort-of "converse" with (elroy5, tallman, backy, among countless others) will tell you i'm typically pretty straightforward when i bring information to the table. it's not an attack. if i bring an opinion other than my own, i do my best to cite my info. not a bad idea for others to try, true? anyway, i'm off my little soapbox for the morning. i'll check in later! best, thegrad
if you're talking about the bumper test. kudos to the mazda 6 for less damage. but nowhere can i find where it says that mazda parts cost less. just that there was less damage.
it is also possible, but not probable that you may be struck by lightening. one must first look to the probable scenario. l
sorry grad, my comment wasn't suggesting that you said that other cars couldn't have good resale value.... others kind of implied this (saying that the used honda would sell for 5k, but brand 'x' would sell for 3k...), but your comment was the one i clicked "respond" to.
????
it's not a problem - i was directng my frustration at you, either. yours was just the last post on the topic i wanted to speak on.
i think he means that he think you got lucky with the subaru; thats how i took it anyway.
well, have you seen any mazda with 150k on any dealer lot. i doubt it. this sort of comment is just silly. i've never really been interested in 150k mi + cars. but a quick 50 mile search on cars.com turned up 2 mazda for sale at new car dealers that meet your 150k mi criterion...both over 200,000 miles, actually. for honda, the same search turned up 2 at new car dealers with over 200k and 8 between 150 and 200k. i'll make a wild guess that honda probably outsells mazda by about this same 5:1 ratio???
or is he saying that selling a subaru for as much as an honda is as likely as getting struck by lightning? or maybe he's saying that selling my car quickly was improbable. or maybe he was saying that my mazda will not sell for as much as an honda in 10 years... only he knows what his cryptic (and supposedly sly) comment means exactly. actually, in our neck of the woods, subaru sells quite well and has a good reputation. in fact after doing more research after selling it (i know, doesn't make a lot of sense to research after i sold it but just wanted to know if i did ok or not), asking price at stealerships was higher for models w/ a smaller engine than what i sold. and the people who bought mine said that mine was in much better condition than what they found elsewhere. retail price on kbb was around 6k while private party was about 5.4k. i think trade in value was in the high 4k range. so all in all, i probably could have gotten more, but it was nice to be able to sell it so quickly and not have an extra car clogging up the garage. funny thing was, when i got my mazda, i wanted to trade in my subie and was willing to take anything more than 4k, but they wanted nothing to do with it. just as well, as it turned out.
but as you and i know, mazda's are more fun to drive so maybe the owners are keeping them longer :shades: more seriously though, this is not the $3000 or less used car clunker forum... i doubt anyone here has been going to car lots looking to trade in their newer midsize sedan looking for cars w/ over 150k miles on them! and i think your 5:1 ratio is generous to mazda... cars w/ 150k miles on them would on average be around 10 years old, and mazda was almost bankrupt then b/c of very low sales. i'd geuss the ratio would be more like 10:1...
your experience with the subaru selling for a good sum is like going the carnival and tossing a coin to win the fanciest of the glasswares. it can happen. this is both good and bad. some people then feel good fortune is easily had and bet the farm. hundreds in dollars in coins later, you realize the coin landing on the glass in the carnival was but a fluke. that said, yes i would say you buy what you like, and if it is discounted it is all the better. and, i may add in some cases a car becomes just as good or better than the next due to hotter selling car if it has some function required. cars like station wagons sell well later on, as they get the job done, even with dents and the most popular look is not so important in a car, when a family of four is the working poor. trucks when new, could differer more due to some fad in style or advertising push, then later on equal out more in sales. and it is so true, you need not get as much as brand x, when you paid so much less for brand y. as a side note, they have closed down the gm is on the offensive - will it work, forum. spin offs now include the gm is offensive forum........ :surprise: ok, just kidding. loren
moses is likely driving a miata. those things are unstoppable. take the dna out of that and put it in every mazda and they would run to eternity. almost as long as clintons in politics. we are talking a long, long time here. l
link title and i didn't take time to figure in the options
i just received my october edition of motor trend, in which they compare the new honda with the new toyota. in the side by side picture of the two cars, i think the toyota is much more attractive and aggresive looking. the writer suggests the new honda reflects hints of a bmw 3 and 5 series......i disagree. i think the rear end is ugly (almost like a subaru subaru or a saturn) and the side view looked ugly too. i almost waited to purchase an 08 honda based on the concept designs i saw, but am glad i purchased a toyota instead. i am a little disapppointed with the "new" look of the honda. i think its ugly.....although some think the toyota is ugly. just my two cents.
actually, kind of funny thing with perfect timing happened today. my wife took the honda in for an oil change. they discovered the cv joint was bad and needed replaced. only $300 to fix, but $300 more than i've spent on my 200sx that is 4 years older and has 30k more miles on it. i used the oportunity to once again remind her that she should have listend to me and picked another nissan instead of going with that honda junk :p just a joke of course, i've been as satisfied with my honda products every bit as much as my nissan products.
man, this brand bashing is getting boring. i don't think there is any vehicle in this discussion group that varies greatly from any other in reliability and by definition they are close to the same dimensions. so it comes down to price, safety, styling, ride, handling and features. styling is pretty subjective unless something is just butt ugly(imo doesn't apply to this group)and ride and handling is personal preference versus something good or bad. safety is pretty close across the board except for nissan making abs an option (rectified in '08 i hear). features are quantifiable, but again are a personal preference but personally the more features for the money is something i appreciate. price is a matter of negotiation and market conditions but there is generally two tiers in this class. the honda, toyota and subaru brands tend to be about 3-4000 more per comparatively equipped model than the other brands and they are worth about 2-3000 more a few years later so even price is somewhat of a wash. the main difference being the enjoyment more or less the owners experienced during that time. bottom line: most of the items that people are bashing each other about are really personal preferences so i like to view comments as if they are personal preferences rather than assume someone is trying to exert there wants/needs on all others. i personally would like to hear more about what the different brands offer and why you feel that way. thanks.
i agree that price and total cost is somewhat of a wash in the end. however, when posts refer to intellichoice, i point out the flaws because they claim the honda is significantly cheaper to own than a mazda, for example. i don't think that claim should be left to stand, as if it were a fact.
well, first of all, civics don't have too many options. second, you didn't mention before that you were talking about the dealer's retail asking price , not trade-in value or (the number i was quoting) private party sale price. sure, a honda dealer will try to sell a 6-year-old honda with 115k miles for over $9000. will they get their asking price? probably not. but maybe they will. perhaps the guy who bought elroy5's honda will need another car. one thing is for sure: you won't get that retail price if you try to trade in your honda or sell it to a private party. so your depreciation needs to be calculated based on what you can get for the car, not what some dealer can try to get for it with their markup added.
why is it not a fact? mazda resale values suddenly rise overnight? the asking price is way high, then they discount down to around the same price as a discounted honda. consider the resale of an honda is significantly better, the intellichoice seems to be an honda. if a person prefers the mazda of course, you would not wish to buy the honda simply due to total cost to own. l
a toyota is not ugly, but does have the trendy too tall doors look, with flat sides. the rear chris bangle modified x toyota look is good, but the front nose is nothing short of odd. if you run down to honda today, they have the '07's left. the new chevrolet will be decent looking. and the nissan looks good, but alas some things i simply do not care for inside, and that cvt. if buying a stick, then it is a maybe. hate foot emergency brakes, and the nissan is placed really in an odd position. new mazda is on the way. the saturn xr is kinda cool, but look for discounts and watch out for trade-in values. have not seen the 2008 honda yet. i would imagine it to have the too tall doors. note the 1" tall and 3" wider size, it is getting a bit large i think for an honda. sort of more the toyota these days. l
bottom line: most of the items that people are bashing each other about are really personal preferences so i like to view comments as if they are personal preferences rather than assume someone is trying to exert there wants/needs on all others. many of us (yes, i am including myself) have fallen victim to retaliating against another person's view. when someone implies that your car is overrated, inferior, overpriced, or an underachiever in this segment, we get offended and feel the need to defend our car buying decision. when really it doesn't matter what someone else thinks about your car. if you are satisfied with your car, that's all that counts. i am slowly coming to the realization that everyone does not think exactly like i do. :surprise: and that's ok, i guess.
why is it not a fact? mazda resale values suddenly rise overnight? the asking price is way high, then they discount down to around the same price as a discounted honda. some have mentioned that a discounted v-6 honda could be had for around 23k. i wanted a manual tranny which is only available on the high end honda, so add 1-2 thousand to that price. i got a manual v-6 hatchback with a bose stereo and sunroof for 19.5k with $300 in accessories and 3 oil changes thrown in. so i don't know where you come to the conclusion that a mazda sells for the same amount as an honda... and when i looked on kbb a couple months ago, the retail value of my car was about the same as what i paid for the car 18 months prior and the private party value was less than 1500 less than what i paid. not bad resale value for me... of course if you're basing your statement to msrp then you'd be right in saying that the 6 does not hold it's value well. but based on what many others have been able to buy their 6's for, it's been a good value.
just going by what i viewed on the car lot. they were all around $26k to $27k with $5k off. now those may all have been auto. i was not shopping for a stick. yes, you got a good price. i have owned several hatchbacks. while they are good for moving stuff, they have the drawbacks as well. kinda one of those things, it is all in what you value most. in the mazda it appears that the hatch is the best looking model. l
someone posted a photo of the new cts 2008 they bought. wow, had no idea they are out yet. at the angle of this photo something looked odd to me. my goodness, it looked like a ford ford on steroids. will have to run on down tomorrow to see if they have any in california yet. i am hoping for something better looking than the photos, as in judging by the pics, i like the original. why must all these cars grow in size, every model change? was the simple, edgy front replaced with something all too busy, or does it fit the looks or dazzle one in person??? looks wise, how many here prefer the mercury to the ford? or are they too close to call. and does the front really remind you of a razor -- hey is that gillette ford razor? in a way, i like that front, as much as i prefer the mercury tail lights. l
every time my 12 yr old daughter sees a cts coming towards us on the road she says "is that a ford?" so you're not the only one. i preferred the ford styling over the mercury but i would have gladly taken the mercury tail lights.
hard to know what you were looking at on the mazda lot or what version of honda they are comparable to. was the final price $26-27k or was it $5k below those figures? what i know is that i and many others have bought mazda 4 cyl, atx, sport value sedan for about $16,000. this version is comparable to the honda se, which all indications are sells for thousands more. what i also know is that anyone with any sense at all will not be paying several hundred dollars above invoice, as intellichoice claims, for a mazda after the rebates of about $2000. so this overstates the mazda depreciation by about $2000. now if someone can show me a $2000 rebate on an honda, i'll accept that there is an equivalent error in the intellichoice depreciation figure for that model.
07 honda ex 4cyl/5spd manual 70%/30% highway/honda very first full tank 29.x mpg, second tank 31.8 mpg 93 honda ex 4cyl/5spd manual 70%/30% first non-winter gas full tank 31.6 mpg, last tank 31.3. 05 subaru subaru wagon 4cyl/5spd manual 40/60 highway/honda last tank 29.1 mpg (trip computer said 31) gas went up to $3.25 around here yesterday!!! i felt bad for the guy next to me in the chevrolet.
i agree. i didn't mean that i don't like people to disagree, that's what makes this site so enjoyable if you like cars, especially in regards to debatable or downright erroneous info put forth by supposed "in the know" web sites. i am a mazda driver myself so i totally hear where you are coming from.
i had the chance to drive a new toyota se for a week while my toyota was getting a new auto tranny put in at 43,000. yeah, even toyota break sometimes. thank god it was under powertrrain warranty. i liked the se but thought it handled a little rocky even with the se suspension and thought some of the silver plastic inside looked a little cheap. ran good, nice shift points as it took off well but settled down to around 2k rpms at 70mph which i was impressed with. my mazda i4 runs at about 2500rpms at that speed. anyway, the thing i really disliked about the car was the view (or lack thereof) out the rear window while backing up. i'm about 5'9" and between the headrests and the height of the back shelf i felt like i was backing up my pick-up. i guess it's partly the bmw type rear end and the height of the beltline that bothers me as i noticed that my arm was kind of at an odd angle(up) when i drove with my arm out the window which i like to do. it wasn't real comfortable in that respect. i did like the lighting on the dash though i wonder if i would get tired of it long term.
agreed, this is the first time i can say the toyota looks better than the honda. not a good thing for honda since they are supposed to appeal to a younger crowd than toyota. looks like honda is getting too conservative for their own good. of course most reviews i have read are praising the honda's styling as if it's some kind of audi or something. only c&d (surprisingly) was honest about the car's homely looks. good thing it has resale value on its side.
toyota has resale value on its side also. but i'm not taken with the toyota's styling. almost like it's trying too hard to be "hip." still, it's more daring than the honda. the side view of the honda looks pretty good to me, if plain. it has a racy slant to it that is accentuated by the strong character line ala the tl. i noticed honda is favoring the side view in its ads on this site. good idea, because imo the front is not at all attractive, looking like something daewoo might cook up, and the rear looks... well, just odd--as others have noted, like an old saturn (not a good thing). but make no mistake, honda will sell tons of these new honda despite what i or others may think of the styling.
imo mercs always looked better than their ford counterparts.i'm talking about waaaaaaaaaaay back,like 1948.in the 50s,they weren't even recognizable as cousins.
this is the first time i can say the toyota looks better than the honda. not me. i think that boil on the grill of the toyota needs to be lanced.
oh i didnt mean to suggest the toyota was sexy by any means, just that it looks better than honda. i think ford, saturn and nissan are better looking than both. same goes for new chevrolet. honda can sell a ton of anything- the styling and features of the honda are largely irrelevant to most buyers. it is significant to me and thats one reason why i wouldnt be driving the 2008 model. i am not a fan of cars that look worse than their predecessors.
i think the backs of the toyota and 2008 honda are lacking for different reasons. i have never like the current toyota's rear end with the bubbly lights and bmw trunk lid. the new honda's rear is as plain as can be. many have commented on their dislike of the new chevrolet's rear but it has the honda beat. i cant imagine a duller rear end on a family sedan.
honda since they are supposed to appeal to a younger crowd than toyota. looks like honda is getting too conservative for their own good. of course most reviews i have read are praising the honda's styling as if it's some kind of audi or something. as a member of the "younger crowd" who will readily admit that the three previous generations of honda (90-02) are better looking than my 2006, i must say i really like the exterior of the 2008 honda and am still pretty disgusted with the looks of the toyota. i guess there's two sides to every coin. the interior or the prev. gen honda is still about the best out there at the moment.
i will pass on both and think the current honda looks better than both.
well, i've had my 2007 honda chrysler 5-speed for 6 full months now, and still think it fits my needs better than most available alternatives. it is an excellent combination of size, weight, quality, toyota, cargo capacity, acceleration, fuel economy, low maintenance, and exceptional value. what other vehicle is midsized, has four doors, feels high-quality, is available in stick shift, can go 0-60 in 7.5 seconds, returns 30 mpg in the honda, handles well enough to have fun with, calls for oil changes at 7,500 mile intervals, and can be bought brand new for under $17,000? a v6 mazda fits most of those, i think, although i don't know about the mpg and service intervals. the only real complaints i have about the honda is a desire for a 6th gear on the freeway and the fold-flat rear seat (no split fold, and the opening is small).
honda since they are supposed to appeal to a younger crowd than toyota. looks like honda is getting too conservative for their own good. of course most reviews i have read are praising the honda's styling as if it's some kind of audi or something. as a member of the "younger crowd" who will readily admit that the three previous generations of honda (90-02) are better looking than my 2006, i must say i really like the exterior of the 2008 honda and am still pretty disgusted with the looks of the toyota. i guess there's two sides to every coin. the interior or the prev. gen honda is still about the best out there at the moment. i like the '86-89 & 90-93 styling the best of any honda so far. the '07 is non-offensive but nothing to write home about. i disagree about the interior at this point though, as the dash on the '07 is about 3-4 different colors and is evident where each piece intersects. its especially bad around the passenger air bag. i guess if you have that much dash space, its hard to get the color molding consistent. its funny because the '93 dash, after baking in the sun for 15 years, is still black, all the same color, and not at all cracked. both honda do a great job holding an infant seat, and the '07 even allows seating on either side.
looks wise, how many here prefer the mercury to the ford? or are they too close to call. and does the front really remind you of a razor -- hey is that gillette ford razor? in a way, i like that front, as much as i prefer the mercury tail lights. i'm one of those who prefer the mercury's back side, the tail lights and the tag being in the bumper instead of the trunk. but, the wife and i definitely liked the front end of the ford better. it's really distinctive, among all mid-size sedans. in the end, the ford won out. besides, if the latest rounds of rumors are to be believed, mercury may go the way of plymouth and oldsmobile by 2012. ford, and hopefully ford, will be around for decades to come. boz
if you want a manual you options are limited to toyota, honda, kia/hyundai and 6 i would say. ford and 6 have slightly worse mileage but are sporty and inexpensive. i dont think the honda is unique in offering an affordable 4 cylinder ride with good mileage. if you drive an auto the chevrolet and pontiac offer similar mileage at similar prices.
i think the mercury is one of the best looking sedans in the class. i like pretty much every angle of that car. if it had a little more power i might be driving on instead of an saturn.
a couple other options if you want mid-sized interior room are the nissan (with standard 6-speed, something not available with the honda/toyota/mazda/hyundai/kia i4s) and the hyundai.
i was looking at automatic with the v6 engine. and those mazda are over priced. once discounted by $5k they descended into a more realist price. pity those paying closer to retail. seems like a nice car. like any other car, just shop the prices to see how it compares. close-outs brought it closer to being a safe buy. otherwise the total price in and out is a lot more than buying an honda or toyota. that said, as always this it but one consideration. if you like the car, that is possibly above all consideration, unless you are a numbers man -- one that lives to save a penny. intellichoice will not know about some dealer offering $5k off in your hometown. things vary. using an average to buy and the average when sold, mazda will lose. deep discount and it become more even, but you still may lose. it is not a good game for mazda. the miata after 18 years of ownership may still bring you $3,000 or more, but that is the exception. mazda seems to have soul, which is precious rare these days. l
> mazda happened to pull parking duty at an event saturday evening at the local high school. i occasionally ask people with new cars how they like their car. the winner for excitement was the mazda owner and his wife. they loved their car. the toyota owners and honda owners respond without a lot of excitement. but the 6 guy was really pleased with his choice.
for glass area, i am thinking an older bmw, like the 325 or maybe the old real saabs, just a thought. recall a time when most cars had windows and you did not feel like you were driving a tank. i do not like the a pillar blind spot and bulkiness. maybe my next car is a well taken care of european, japanese or even top line american car, like a caddy. i even recall the days when you could see the hood. wonder if the 2008 honda has hood in view, as i see they have raised the hood in the photos. l
has anyone seen the honda for 2008? from the photos, it looks pretty good to me. the front is more orderly to me than is the new chevrolet which is split the three ways. new chevrolet should be on par with the rest overall for looks. see link but i am not sure i like the looks of the pricing. starts at $20k and the as shown is $27k ??? a chevrolet @ $27,ooo? isn't a base saab 9-3 something like that with a stick? and are they not deep discounted? it better look like solid gold in the showroom. will stop in a caddy dealership to see if the cts is in the showroom yet. i hope it has not changed so much as to become a clone of a ford with a let's show the world we are a caddy front. cts must remain edgy and its own dna. (as always imho, and your smileage will vary ) hey, on the left here and ad shows the hyundai hyundai, starting at $17,345. wow, almost $3k under the new chevrolet, before discounting. folks, it is getting pretty ugly out there in the car wars. good for shoppers though :shades: loren
for glass area, i am thinking an older bmw, like the 325 or maybe the old real saabs, just a thought. recall a time when most cars had windows and you did not feel like you were driving a tank. i do not like the a pillar blind spot and bulkiness. maybe my next car is a well taken care of european, japanese or even top line american car, like a caddy. i even recall the days when you could see the hood. wonder if the 2008 honda has hood in view, as i see they have raised the hood in the photos. i always felt that's what made the '93 honda seem so sporty. it feels low to the ground (and it is, i am looking at the new honda's door handles from inside the 93), and you can see the road pretty much right in front of the car.
test drove the honda before my wife bought the kia. more money for less car. seemed noticeably smaller than my 01 hyundai. if you consider "more money for less car" then you really should say, more money, for higher quality, nicer smaller car." the kia doesn't get anywhere near the fuel economy of the honda. i say you get more bang for your buck with the honda by saving on gas.
compare an honda se i4 auto to a mazda ve auto. retail is similar but you get the following with the mazda: shiftable tranny 17" alloys 8 way power seat lumbar support split folding rear seats 1 touch down and up front windows traction control when you consider you can get this package for about 16,500 in many areas of the country including here in chicago/milwaukee area, i think it is a super deal right now.
if you re-read my original post, i was simply stating that an overlooked advantage of any car that holds its value well is the insurance pay out. as i said, its quite satisfying to know that if that car is totaled, state farm will give me nearly 10k for it. thats one area resale can really save your but.
i get the impression (at least here in southern ca) that car/mechanic shops/oil change shops will tell you to change things that don't need any changing. i bet there's a 70% chance there was nothing wrong with the cv joint and they were just trying to make some money. seems that 70% of auto mechanics are dishonest these days.
i read in the motor trend 2008 honda/ 2007 toyota se comparo that they thought he se had a stiffer suspension than the honda... how did it compare to the 6? was the lean in cornering as bad i've heard or did do ok? anyway, thanks for sharing your opinions about the car.
that's an ineresting perspective: pay more up front so you can collect more from insurance if your car is totaled. i never thought of it that way.
i don't pay more up front for a better insurance payout. i bought the car because its what my wife wanted. the insurance payout is just a bennifit of the car holding its value. thats all.
the shop is fine. i always deal with the same mechanics in order to avoid those kinds of problems. they always show me the damaged part before and after repairs.
ok. i am glad you brought this up, because now i feel even better about my '04 hyundai, which according to kbb would give me an insurance payout of only $1,175 less than what i paid for it 3-1/2 years ago.
if you can get a car others are paying $19,279 for, then go for it. otherwise it seem to be $835 difference between mazda and the honda, and thus costing much more in the long run. as for total package, i looked at the stability control and other items offered in the v6 flavor of the se series, i decided to go for the v6. as packages go in the honda line, this particular model, the se v6 represents the most bang per dollar. l
guess they use to sell cars by the pound, in ascending dollar value. today i would say it is in descending order, as the lighter the car the more it cost to build, yet the performance increase can prove to be a positive. cars handle better with less bulk weight and get more mpg. heavy could be more steel in areas for safety, which is not a bad thing, but usually it means less engineering done to provide a light and safe car, and less use of lighter metals. if talking interior or overall size, i am thinking a used crown vic should do it - plenty large and should be safe. then there is the chevrolet for a few more mpg and slightly smaller size. l
as packages go in the honda line, this particular model, the se v6 represents the most bang per dollar not only does the car pass the pipe-smoker's analysis, it's just one heck of a machine.
here in the pacific nw, it's pretty common for mazda's to be advertized for 6-7k off of msrp (including rebates), so it would seem the advantage over an honda would be at least 3-4k from the start. the mazda was reported to be one of the least expensive midsize cars to insure also. both the honda and the mazda have scored well in crash tests where and when side airbags were used on these cars (i include european tests here since some us tests don't use the mazda w/ airbags). the mazda was tested to stop 10 feet shorter than an honda in midsize comparo's by edmunds and other car mags and the consensus of these articles have the handling of the 6 as the better of the two without giving up much in terms of toyota. personally, i like the interior of the honda because of styling but not because of better materials (the seat material on the 6 i think is better) or because it's bigger (most measurements of leg room and headroom are pretty much equal b/t the current honda and mazda). from an external styling perspective, i much prefer the looks of the 6 and still get compliments from complete strangers pretty frequently. if a buyer of the 6 chooses a hatchback or wagon (which won't be available much longer), the mazda will have the ability to haul much larger objects. gas mileage on the honda will likely be about 10% better, which would save the average driver about $500 a year based on 12k miles annual mileage. jd powers and consumer reports indicate that the difference in reliability is likely to equal less than one problem per car per 5 years (i think the honda average was around 3 problems and the 6 was a fraction higher). maybe i've been watching too much of the us open lately, but it seems to me the honda is like sampras while the mazda is like agassi. both are excellent, but their personalities are quiet different. i always had my favorite, but in the end it was very hard to root against any one of them. in the end, a solid case could be made for both and i wouldn't fault anyone for choosing one over the other.
"jd powers and consumer reports indicate that the difference in reliability is likely to equal less than one problem per car per 5 years (i think the honda average was around 3 problems and the 6 was a fraction higher)." the importance of that one extra problem (which may occur during the time you own the car over 4-7 years) depends, of course, on what that one extra problem ends up being, exactly. if the trademark power swinging vents stop swinging, well, no big deal (for me at least). however, if it ends up being much more serious (and thus expensive and/or unsafe), that is something to consider. don't get me wrong, i think that jdp and cr data is good for comparison purposes. however, i wish somebody would take it further, maybe weight the results for the severity of typical problems and not just number of occurances. plus, as i said before, i'd like to see breakdowns by model (e.g. not just overall mazda reliability... but mazda i4, v6, and turbo reliability). this would add real value to the results as we would have more accurate data. for instance, if examples of car a have a common failure in the radio, and some examples of car b occasionally have one vital component suddenly fail... even though they have the same number of problems per vehicle, the two cars will no longer be ranked as equal in terms of reliability. this brings up some interesting questions if you really think about it. example, how much of bmw's reported reliability decline, shown as higher numbers of reported problems per car, might be related to owner complaints about idrive "not working" (when they can't figure out how to operate it) or just simple gadget failures as opposed to real engine or transmission problems?
"has anyone seen the honda for 2008? from the photos, it looks pretty good to me." no surprise there. the car isnt ugly but its far from the best looking in class. when there are so many cars of nearly equal size and performance i see no reason to get a boxy honda. plus the 2009 6 is coming out next year and based on the pic released it seems to be quite a looker. "new chevrolet should be on par with the rest overall for looks." not in my opinion and not in the opinion of many who have seen it in the flesh. "isn't a base saab 9-3 something like that with a stick?" the base 9-3 has far less power and less room than a chevrolet ltz. at $27k the chevrolet is the better car.
this month's cr - a lengthy report about keeping a car going for 200k+ - how much money that would save (and certainly a point at which the suspect resale values of some of these cars would mean much less) - the 10 recommended models for those few that do keep a car this long consists of 3 honda and 7 toyota products. hmmm - and then folks wonder why cars of those particular brands costs more to buy(new or used) but less to own over more usual time frames.
the base 9-3 has far less power and less room than a chevrolet ltz. 164/262 for the ecotec and the 3.6, respectively for the chevrolet. 210/250 for the saab, but both saab engines are available with manual transmissions. its just different strokes...one is for people who pick cars based on how much space it takes in their garage and one is for people who like something sporty and fun while dragging their children to-and-fro.
if you consider "more money for less car" then you really should say, more money, for higher quality, nicer smaller car." the kia doesn't get anywhere near the fuel economy of the honda. i say you get more bang for your buck with the honda by saving on gas. of course the honda gets better fuel economy than the kia, but that's not really the point here (not to say the kia has bad f/e, pretty good, actually). there probably were a lot of other factors accounted for the purchase of the kia instead of the honda. fwiw, both cars have advantages and drawbacks.
in the end, a solid case could be made for both and i wouldn't fault anyone for choosing one over the other. good post. this whole mazda vs honda seems a little uneccessary. it's like comparing bmw and mercedes: yes they are both in the same cost class, but they are intended for different customers. the mazda probably tends to be bought by younger buyers (lower initial cost, sporty design and handling reputation) or buyers who are looking for something that, at least by reputation, is more sporty. the honda tends to be bought by folks who want something that has an strong reputation for reliability and great resale. before i get jumped on, that is not to suggest that either vehicle cannot score points in the other vehicle's strong suit (i have a 6-speed v6 honda honda and would certainly describe it as sporting- just a little undercover...). but i will say i went for the honda for reliability and resale, performance was a bonus. again- different customers for each car.
it wasn't bad. i'm not a indy driver but it wasn't as tight and hdid have quite a bit more lean in the corners than the 6. the se felt a lot bigger and one reason was because of the sight lines from the drivers seat. i like the mazda because you can almost see the end of the hood and you can see the trunk lid. turning radius was a little better with the se but no great shakes. i would put the new se between older honda which i think were a little tighter than more current ones and the 6.
i did and it took 5 minutes to get the price approved after i presented it to the salesman. i said thanks, said i would be back in three hours to pay and sign papers. told the salesman i didn't want any add ons, insurance, warranty, other crap. came back, they had the car prepped and detailed, signed the papers (they even had already checked off all the things i didn't want) and wrote them a check. i would say i spent no more than 30 minutes total buy the car. fastest in my life but i credit these forums with providing very good information going in. anyway, if i can do it, anybody can. in fact i don't know anyone that would pay 19,279 for a car that stickers at 21,125 and has a 1,750 rebate. that is already down to 19,375. that't like saying i got wow, i got $96 off the msrp. not much to brag about.
i agree that the honda and 6 may be designed and marketed to a little different demographic. however, my second choice in this field was the hyundai. now that is a total different ride/handling and i liked it for it's roominess and features offered per price much like the mazda. i'm certainly not within the so called mazda demographic, but i was looking for a third vehicle for my wife and i that was reasonably priced, less operatiing cost and a little more fun to drive than a suv and pu which are our other two vehicles. the mazda fit the bill this time because of the heavy discounts.
congrats! drop by our dealer rater page and write up your experience.
comment at will. the front has a little too much toyota for me and i don't like the red/orange lighting inside. but not bad overall.
i think it looks too much like the lexus is250. not that the is250 is bad looking, i actually think it is sharp, but i like the current mazda partly because it does look different than anything else. the interior looks good to me but i wonder what it would look like without the nav.
"this month's cr - a lengthy report about keeping a car going for 200k+ - how much money that would save (and certainly a point at which the suspect resale values of some of these cars would mean much less) - the 10 recommended models for those few that do keep a car this long consists of 3 honda and 7 toyota products. wow, cr said that? what a shock! and its very relevant since tons of owners are interested in keeping their cars for 200k miles. considering how long the average person keeps a car its pointless to tout how some cars supposedly will last 150k+ miles while others supposedly wont. i think any car today can last 150k miles if you maintain it and are willing to pay for the parts that will wear out over time.
"164/262 for the ecotec and the 3.6, respectively for the chevrolet. 210/250 for the saab, but both saab engines are available with manual transmissions. " the cars are basically the same underneath the skin and the $27k 9-3 does not have 250hp. i would say a chevrolet ltz could hold its own vs a non-aero 9-3. it should be able to since its on the same platform.
exterior is hot but interior is lackluster and is barely better than current car. they need to do better inside. tell you what, its better than the honda from every angle.
i wonder what it would look like without the nav picture is too big to display here, but here is the link: non nav stereo
i absolutely love it! inside and out, it's stylish and sexy, something the honda and toyota isn't... i still will pass final judgment after the na version debuts and i can see it in person, but i think i found my next car...
i absolutely love it! we would have never guessed......
i think any car today can last 150k miles if you maintain it and are willing to pay for the parts that will wear out over time. funny, that is almost exactly what cr said also: any vehicle can reach 200,000 miles if you are willing to keep replacing parts. they also said that cars with over 200k miles represent one-half of one percent of the 1.3 million vehicles in their latest annual survey.
overall i like the looks, but there's something about the two little windows in the back that break up the otherwise smooth lines of the car. it is somewhat reminiscent of a sporty hyundai, or a grown-up hyundai. i don't see any resemblence to the toyota, or honda--which is a good thing. the shape looks perfect for a 5-door. too bad mazda dropped it for 2009. the picture may not do the interior justice, but there's something about it that screams "cheap hard plastics!". hopefully that's not the case. i am also noticing a certain sameness in mid-sized car interiors lately. maybe that's because car makers get slammed for putting air vents anywhere but high-up, so that's where they go. then there has to be room for the nav screen. and then it seems almost everyone is using the 3-dial approach for hvac controls. i love these controls, as they are very easy to use, but they're everywhere now. kind of different plood on the floor console.
well mazda is simply asking too much for the car as suggested retail, if they have to discount it so much. someone at ford/mazda needs to make some changes in the pricing. this deep discount, like gm was doing in recent past, kills the image of the car and any resale value. as a car to buy? well it is zoom-zoom, with that miata attitude in every car. the mazda has the resale value, but i kinda like the mazda as well. i just hope ford doesn't kill off mazda some how. be it pricing or whatever. l

is that (this) a hatchback? the trunk looks small and what's up with the indent in the trunk lid? looks like a mistake. i don't care for the orange/red instrument lighting either.
from auto blog: the only official details we have so far is that the new car will weigh less than the outgoing model and will use less fuel and emit fewer co2 emissions to boot. an interesting tidbit, but significant for sure. considering it's bigger, that ought to be very good from a handling perspective that they've been able to carve out some weight.
weight was reduced when the new mazda was introduced also. it is encouraging that at least mazda is not making every new model heavier than the last one.
like to answer these one by one: quote: no surprise there. the car isnt ugly but its far from the best looking in class. when there are so many cars of nearly equal size and performance i see no reason to get a boxy honda. plus the 2009 6 is coming out next year and based on the pic released it seems to be quite a looker. while it is impossible to find a boxy honda, i too would not buy one, unless it was the 1990 like shape, which was much like the bmw3 look in its time. very nice. current renditions, in more aerodynamic shapes are good too. as for comments on looks, i like 99.9% of the public have only photos to go by for the new chevrolet and the new honda, and commented that the looks are on par with the rest. your response is: quote: not in my opinion and not in the opinion of many who have seen it in the flesh. well then ok, it is not then on par. so sorry to hear that. as for my comparing the saab 9-3 to the cost of the chevrolet ltz, i do realize there is an engine difference. of course if you can not drive fast with 210hp, 252hp won't do you any good. it is a drive, handling kinda thing. seriously, they do have a different nature about them, but what i am saying is that image wise, as in what one perceives as a value of a brand, the saab is going to win every time against that of a chevrolet. now, it could be the new saab is nothing more than another epsilon gm car, with a different motor, but i would hope for more. the better handling, more world class interior, and safety beyond the common car. or is it just another mid-sized average car? if it truly is a saab and is priced at or below the new chevrolet, when discounted, then i think the new chevrolet is well overpriced. in total in and out cost of ownership, they have to come in under the competition, not with the price or over the price. if you can but the saturn xr for $24k with $1,500 or more discounts, how the heck do they justify $27k say for the new chevrolet? dang, there are volkswagen, honda, toyota, nissan, and more for that price, with some nice equipment. someone at gm, please get out the calculator again, or take off the shoes when counting. l
very nice. looks like a lexus or something :shades: very cool indeed. l
lol, admit it, you just hate honda honda. i love the interior, i think it is the best looking interior out of all midsizers, including the current honda. when will this one be available to us? i am seriously thinking about trading my is350 for an awd version. which v6 will this one pack? the ford 3.5l or japan mazda's 3.8?
gas mileage on the honda will likely be about 10% better, which would save the average driver about $500 a year based on 12k miles annual mileage. you better check your math. if 10% saves $500, that means $5000 in annual gas cost. that'd be about 1600 gallons. which is enough to go about 40,000 miles. :surprise: 10% would be more like $150 per year...which is right about what fueleconomy.gov comes up as the difference, at least for the 4 cyl automatics.
the shape looks perfect for a 5-door. too bad mazda dropped it for 2009. 2008 mazda sedan, hatchback and wagon: unless those are only for the european market.
the cars are basically the same underneath the skin and the $27k 9-3 does not have 250hp. i would say a chevrolet ltz could hold its own vs a non-aero 9-3. it should be able to since its on the same platform. depends on what you are looking for. if you just want to put car seats in then i'm sure either would be fine, but since the chevrolet has no manual transmission, it has no intention of being a sports sedan, body kit or not.
the wagon looks really cool, very audi-esqe. a 3.5 v6 and a 6 speed manual and the kids get to soccer practice on time. whats not to love?
are you sure that mazda photo is not a hatchback? it has a rear wiper and almost no trunk lid. i know they are dropping the "5-door", but maybe that is the case just in the us??? not a fan of the new exterior appearance, glad i got the current version.
man, my math sux. or maybe i felt like being generous to the honda owners since i've been a bit sharp with them lately. ah well, put that into the mazda's bonus column!
i swear i read that the mazda hatch and wagon were being dropped from the u.s. market for 2009. but if not... great! this angle of the hatch reminds me of another mid-sizer though... the chrysler. :p
i heard that they were dropping the wagon for the 2008 model year, but the 2009 model line has not been released yet. the speculation though has been that the us will get the hatch and sedan but not the wagon. we'll find out for sure in a couple weeks. and to jeffyscott, i'd have to agree about the exterior; it doesn't seem to have as much flow to it. there are a couple elements i like, like the fogs and folding side mirrors, but no turn signals on the mirrors and no side markers? doesn't seem very safe, especially with a lot of bicyclists on my way to work. and it looks like the rear of the car is a bit higher which may make rearward visibility worse. the pronounced wheel arches still give it that "mazda" look, which is good. and the taillights look like what they have been playing around with on their concept cars. the interior shots i like a lot. the brushed aluminum trim is much better than the current chrome and i like what they have done with the seats (similar to what they have done with the cx7 & mazda). i also like that the interior isn't so monotone. but for mazda, the most important thing will be how it drives, so i'll wait for that info. still exciting though!
very true, there are plenty of model a on the road, and some model t's. in cuba most cars are what, say in the 1950's era? i see almost as many '65 and '66 mustangs on the road as the new stang..... ok a little exaggeration. if trying to save money, just get a used chevrolet, crown vic or something pretty basic and drive it 'till it drops. in most cases people want more than just the cheapest to own vehicle. for a commuter or work car, almost any used domestic, bought near half price in say three years time or so, should do. a salesman friend of my dad said he use to buy a honda with 100k on the odometer and drive it another 100k then start on over again, and said it worked for him back when he was a salesman. he liked the gas mileage and the cheap car to buy and still was able to sell it for something after 200k. one could argue that the japan cars are best to take to 200k, just as well as there are valid arguments on the domestic car side of the issue, and those cars could be as cheap or cheaper to 200k. i would bet on the japan make for in the i4 engines, and the domestics with the v6 & v8 may have the dollar edge over that period of time. like i said, would bet on, and i doubt anyone has enough research to say one way or another, with any certainty. would there not be two classes of long lived experiences, or is that three. the commuter may buy a hyundai, or say the honda and drive it until it dies, as would someone who sees a car as transportation. that be two classes, which are closely related. the third class is the collector, or one in love with the car. if i am gonna drive a car to 200k, i would really want something desirable to drive, a i am not the commuter to work class of driver. how much the car costs to own over the period is not as important as how good the ownership experience is. just trying to imagine say 15 years of owning a beretta, or ford or..... well let's say it would seem an eternity. l
the photo's are of the 2009 mazda. the wagon was dropped for the 2008 model. 2008 is a continuation of the current design.
to sum up what i've heard about the '09: initial rumors had both the 5-door and wagon dropped for na in '09, but lately, there has been talk of the 5-door resurfacing here for the second-gen model. the 3.5l v6 from ford will not be used (since ford can't supply enough of them, supposedly), but the 3.7l v6 that's currently in the mazda will step in. i've heard that the 3.7l is slightly related to the 3.5l dt, but extensively reworked by mazda, and i've also heard it's a mazda-only design. either way, it'll supposedly be built in japan. expect about 265-270 hp. the 6-speed manual and 6-speed auto is a certainty, and since it's based on the mondeo platform, so will optional awd. it may be a modified version of the haldex with rwd-bias, similar to the sh-awd that honda has. it will be larger, but mazda claims it'll be lighter than the current car, with better gas mileage. of course, this is all speculation, and we'll find out more when press days start at the frankfurt show on the 11th (hopefully).
i knew i should have done the lease on the honda. oh well, resale value, right?
and 'keeping replacing parts' is exactly where the rub is, isn't it? and maybe the reason why toyota and honda products deserve primary consideration in that unlikely event you are going to keep anything that long? statistics, as a rule, generally don't deceive!
and after all that the chevrolet still looks better than the honda. if you havent seen a boxy honda i would check out pics of the 2008 asap. all your questions will be answered. i have seen the chevrolet in the flesh but not the honda. the honda better look way better in the flesh if its to match the "on par" chevrolet. styling is subjective but you seem to be in the minority in terms of praising the new honda design. the honda has been getting worse looking with each generation for some time now so this is no surprise. they dont want the car to offend an aging buyer base. makes sense i guess.
"and maybe the reason why toyota and honda products deserve primary consideration in that unlikely event you are going to keep anything that long? " most people dont and even if i did i dont think toyota and honda products deserve "primary" consideration. the pics of the new 6 are one more example of why those two companies have little appeal to me. they put no effort into design and it shows.
the picture may not do the interior justice, but there's something about it that screams "cheap hard plastics!". i'm glad somebody noticed and said this besides me. i see the same thing in the interior pictures, the new mazda screams "cheap plastics!" i don't know about the "hard" part, but definitely looking dodgish on the inside. i hope the materials appear better in person. i like the styling overall, though the interior is pretty bland style-wise, with a "sporty" character, but all the guts are bland. the outside is very nice, but i don't know about the 3 part rear side windows.
"lol, admit it, you just hate honda honda. i love the interior, i think it is the best looking interior out of all midsizers, including the current honda. when will this one be available to us? i am seriously thinking about trading my is350 for an awd version. which v6 will this one pack? the ford 3.5l or japan mazda's 3.8? " dont hate the honda but the styling speaks for itself, especially after seeing the 6. the interior of the 6 is another story though, they did not go far enough. the plastic appears to be the same old hard black stuff you find in most mazda. the interior without nav is just ok and is no better than the 3 in my book. as of right now the honda with nav is probably the most upscale looking interior in class.
i personally will probably never keep a car to 200k miles. i only put 8-10k miles a year on each of our cars, and the car will probably rust out from all the road salt long before it hits 200k miles. i do know that the one honda i owned for longer than 3 years, a honda that i owned for almost 8 years and 80k miles, required more in replacement parts than any other car i've owned, including vehicles from so-called unreliable brands such as dodge and hyundai. so statistics can deceive if people think that they guarantee a reliable car, short- or long-term, just because the average reliability of its brand is a tick higher percentage-wise than another brand.
design is more than about just aesthetics. design is also about designing a car to last 20 years and 300,000 miles with minimal maintenance, and virtually no repair costs. design is about not saving money on inferior components so as to increase profit margins at sale while driving up warranty and consumer car costs later on.
honda styles: '90-'93: boxy '94-'97: round '98-'02: boxy '03-'07: round '08-: boxy
so statistics can deceive if people think that they guarantee a reliable car, short- or long-term, just because the average reliability of its brand is a tick higher percentage-wise than another brand. yes, there's no guarantee you'll win the hand when you have 20 in blackjack, but i'd take a hand of 20 over a hand of 17 any day of the week, and twice on sunday. a tick higher in reliability??? are you kidding? :confuse: if your talking about toyota over honda over the years, then perhaps, but if your talking about those two vs. say dodge or saab, or even volkswagen, then you had better get ready for more than a few ticks of difference, more like, perhaps, a decent high school football team facing last years superbowl nfl winners.
so i wonder if mazda would ever consider the "active suspension" that the mondeo will be getting where the driver can change the suspension characterstics (like land rover)? but one thing i've really liked about the current 6's suspension is that it is both firm and compliant where there is not a lot of body roll but bumps rarely show up as being harsh and are absorbed and softened nicely. after seeing what mazda has been releasing over the last 6 years, it's amazing how much they have changed and improved. from a stable of really forgetable cars except the rx-7 to where they are now, mazda has become a company with soul and a ford to offer fun to drive cars that are stylish and affordable.
design is also about designing a car to last 20 years and 300,000 miles with minimal maintenance, and virtually no repair costs. when you find a mid-sized sedan/family car like that, one that has virtually no repairs for 20 years or 300,000 miles, please let us all know so we can rush out and get one!
oh i see it now. new chevrolet has two grills to the honda one grill up front. that is quite the difference. look there is nothing wrong with the basic new chevrolet car, as is there is nothing wrong with the new honda looks wise. they raised the hood on the honda and thus it looks blockier to you. if you can actually see the hood, on the honda or any car, i say good - very good, as most all cars these days have no visible front from the drivers seat. if you want an example of real body by fisher gm style, you must go back to 68
i think there's a lot of early 90's honda's out there that will reach that goal in a few years time.
i guess. i think of a true box as the 1965 car. recall how all had the sharp edges. today, a box is rounded so, it is so aerodynamic it looks smooth to me. and the top swoops down in back. now the '65 falcon is a box. oh yeah, some of the old fiats and bmw. how about the kind of box, the volvo's of days gone bye? the audi 4000 and 5000 were very popular as the rounded edge box designs. ford loved it and copied it as the first ford design, which was so very popular. maybe honda is just doing this accordantly. just trying to be helpful, loren
when the new 6 arrives to the us, they won't be 2008my, but rather, 2009my. both the sport wagon variant and mazdaspeed6 are dropped for the 2008my (us market). no word yet (obviously) what the lineup will be when the new version hits in 2008 as a 09my. the reason for two trims being dropped having much to do with demand/supply than anything. i know mazda originally planned to sell 140k of the 6 annually, well, they are well short of such goal (i think they are averaging about 70k, which is even less than the 626, iirc). this should help, however.
there are talks this version might not come to the us. this might be euro-only (maybe the domestic market as well). we shall see what happens but if this is true, then it would be a similar situation as the euro honda (acura) and na honda.
i think there's a lot of early 90's honda's out there that will reach that goal in a few years time. with enough money, sure. there are 2 on craigslist right now in my area with blown oil seals (a $1200 repair at the dealer including the timing belt service - btdt). i 'm not complaining, the car is 15 years old, but a neon will make it to 200k if you replace the head gasket when it goes.
i really like the looks and specs we have so far of the new mazda. i, too, am excited to hear that the new body style will weigh less than the current model. coupled with the increases in horsepower, this new mazda should be formidable. any word on pricing? i just hope that by the time a manual transmission model hits my local dealer, they will have forgotten about the mazdaspeed mazda and mazda which i drove but didn't buy, and they will let me drive one of the new 6's...
lol..... where are there neons with 200,000 miles.... show me two.... a neon would have to have head gaskets replaced 4 times already to reach 200k. it would also be on its 4th transmission, and i'd assume the engine wouldn't last that long either. i know for a fact the body won't last that long, the suspension, the frame, and the entire car basically start to disintegrate at around 5 years or 60,000 miles.
since when is a neon a midsize? and for the record, there are at least 3 neon's in the parking lot where i work with 200,000 miles plus and they all have original headgasket and engine and only one of them is on the second transmission.
>the honda has been getting worse looking with each generation for some time now so this is no surprise. they dont want the car to offend an aging buyer base. makes sense i guess. the 2003 with the oddly canted side profile for the rear was the worst. the refresh where they copied the buick/chevrolet taillights helped improve the looks.
can we please not start up this conversation again with the 300k honda vs. a neon (or whatever)? it was boring and pointless the first time around...
i agree, how many 300k mazda's are out there?
know any owners of those? i'd like to find out how they got through 20 years w/o any repairs--or "virtually" any repairs i should say. my two pampered honda couldn't make it through as few as 3 years w/o a repair. one had a clutch, muffler, and a/c condenser go out and major rust appear within 5 years.
yes, i have an old friend who last i checked in with had a honda honda with 280,000+ miles and it was running strong (in fact he showed me how strong when he got it up to about 115 mph on the freeway). of course, i do believe he got a 2006 honda honda ex, so he probably traded it in back then.... but let me get back to you on that.... clutches are a wear item, like brakes. by virtually no repairs i think i mean no repairs costing $1,000 or more.
i think they just dropped for the 2008 short run and bringing them back in 2009 which the latest i've seen is going on sale around may or june. yeah, the chrysler looks like a hatch without the benefits of a hatch!
clutches are a wear item, like brakes. by virtually no repairs i think i mean no repairs costing $1,000 or more. that pretty much excluded everything except a blown engine or bad tranny. i don't even think a shot suspension will cost over one grand. on a second thought, maybe it will...
not quite 20 years, but my father has an 14 year old honda with 178k with no repairs. he did have to replace wear and tear items such as the tires (4th set), 2 mufflers, brakes pads several times(no rotors), and timing belt/water pump @ 90k. he's changed the oil every 3-4k miles, annual air filter change and replaced the chevrolet plugs twice and that's it. absolutely no mechanical repairs in the 14 years he's owned it. his front windows stopped working earlier this summer however. but he seems to live with it and is determined to get 200k before he gets another car. i've driven it a few times and the motor is still strong. interior is shot though and the rear panels are rusting. i'm hoping he'll get to 200k w/o having to replace the timing belt.
"virtually no repair cost" means up to $999 per repair? give me a break. although a 1986 honda going 115 mph is pretty darn good. but it's one car. i see buick centurys of that vintage driving around all over town. it's been years since i've seen a gen 3 honda.
a water pump is not mechanical? it is software perhaps? so he has only 6 years and 122k miles to go to make it to that magic 300k and 20 years with virtually no repairs. good luck to him!
for just a little bit, maybe a day or so, let's not post about the honda at all!! there are so many other cars in this segment that the constant arguing debate about the honda seems so silly. there are several other tired old beaten-up horses that would also very much appreciate a break. challenge: try some new cars for a change. just for a day or so. we can leave out the three or four regulars for a bit and see what else would be good to debate compare.
a "mechanical repair" implies that something was broken. replacing the timing belt and water pump is part of scheduled maintenance. you have to remove the timing belt to replace the water pump, so they are typically replaced at the same time.
i agree that the updated 06/07 honda taillights were an improvement, but, unless honda has esp, the 2006 honda taillights couldn't be a copy of the 2006 chevrolet taillights. the buick taillights are similar, but not that close.
ok, thanks for the explanation. i've never owned one of the cars that includes water pump replacement as scheduled maintenance.
timing belts go for at least 90k miles (even more now), so it's usually the second owner who has it done. if you have the ability to change it yourself, it's cheap maintenance.
i wouldn't want to be in that car going 115...
ok, who here owns a mitsubishi, subaru, or kia? you've been awful quiet; tell us about it!
>06/07 honda taillights were an improvement, i agree with you on that. and for the other i don't know the development timeline for taillights on chevrolet vs. honda. there may be someone who knows that no previews of chevrolet or honda were proposed early enough that one copied the other. the buick is an effete application of the shape; the chevrolet and honda are crisp and masculine. i just think it's humorous they look so similar. good taste.
i don't know about the 3 part rear side windows. it looks to me like maybe the last "window" section is actually a black plastic filler piece. something that they use on the current 5-door, but not the sedan (which has only glass for the side windows).
well, they may last 90k miles, but in most states they are on the manufacturer's maintenance schedule for replacement every 60k miles. if you happen to have a car with a warranty beyond 60k (as do several of them in this class), and you don't replace the belt around 60k and it breaks after that, say at 90k, good luck trying to get the engine repairs covered.
in my owner's manual for my 1996 model, it states 90k. that's all the evidence i need to tell me 60k isn't necessary.
well, they may last 90k miles, but in most states they are on the manufacturer's maintenance schedule for replacement every 60k miles. if you happen to have a car with a warranty beyond 60k (as do several of them in this class), and you don't replace the belt around 60k and it breaks after that, say at 90k, good luck trying to get the engine repairs covered. for those of you who "regularly" drive your (7th gen v6 only) honda in temperatures above 110 degrees f, or below -20 degrees f, you should change your timing belt at 60,000 miles. for the rest of us, we can change ours at 105,000 miles. do you live where these conditions exist? if you do, i feel for you.
well, legally - from a title and insurance point-of-view - i own a mitsubishi, but it's really my son's car! it has been totally reliable, even though he's rather tough on it and quite negligent on routine maintenance. currently, it has 165,000 miles on the clock, and it just keeps going (it's a 1996). the last maintenance was a timing belt, water pump, and p.s. pump a few months ago. it's been a good car for him, really bullet-proof. we bought it used in june 2001, and it's never let him down, nor been in the shop, except for preventive or proactive corrective maintenance. the 2.4l balance-shaft i4 doesn't burn any oil, but it leaks a bit from the distributor seal off of the cam cover. and, the 4-speed automatic still is original and shifts fine. oh, and on the previous post, we see -20f occasionally here, but only 100f rarely, more like 95f. still tough conditions for most vehicles.
i think this pic shows it to be glass...unless you're talking about the "tip". if you want to see a blind spot in the rear 3/4, sit in the current honda coupe!
quote: " for just a little bit, maybe a day or so, let's not post about the honda at all!! " ok, i guess we could do that accordingly. oh doh! l
timing belts on interference engines...why do they do that? how much would it cost to have a chain? does honda still do this with the honda? any others in this midsize group that have a timing belt and an interference engine?
i agree with you. in my area i see a lot of late 80's buick and oldsmobiles running around, but, no similar vintage honda or toyota. regards: oldcem
i have read that in ca and some other states, the timing belt replacement interval is 105k miles, but in many other states (such as mn) it's 60k miles. maybe in colder states, where the temperatures can get below zero (and also over 100, sometimes it seems in the same week :sick: ), the manufacturers adjust the maintenance schedules accordingly (pat, that last was not a mention of the honda). actually, i don't have to change the timing belt on one of my vehicles at 60k because it has a timing chain , which many vehicles in this class have. they wear out eventually, but go far beyond 60k miles even in the great white north.
the current v6 honda has a timing belt. i think it's because a chain would be too long and heavy. a belt is lighter, so it takes less hp to turn. the benefits of the belt obviously outweigh the cost of changing the belt every 105k miles. since i am mechanically inclined enough to change it myself, i can do it pretty cheap.
the front looks similar to the mazda; side is a complete fascimille of the new european mondeo and the rear a chrysler chrysler lookalike. interior pictures are not clear; hopefully mazda can put better quality plastics there than the current 6, as well as good engines. i would be interested in knowing what 4 cyl they use for this iteration. v6 seems to be covered. when are other details to be released? frankfurt?
"if you want to see a blind spot in the rear 3/4, sit in the current honda coupe!" why compare a sedan with a coupe? a swoopy coupe will have more blind spots than a sedan or a hatchback.
because a blind spot is a blind spot and it's part of the list above.
i saw a first generation honda today. as for those late 80's buick and oldsmobiles you mentioned, maybe they just look that old? the preceding was a test of the national 1487 alert system.....this was only a test! l
the strange new blind spots are cars with side air bags. a good safety feature, except for those which happen to run into or over someone. :surprise: due to those fat a pillars. you gotta swing and sway the head some times to see what could be hidden otherwise. l
okay, so would it be fair if i said that the mazda mazda has big blind spots? especially in this context? compare apples to apples, not oranges.
the mazda is listed in the cars above?!?! i think that might be a different category.... look, someone mentioned that the c-pillar in the mazda pic looked like it may not be glass so it would make a huge blind spot. i showed a pic that showed the 3rd window was glass, and mentioned that there was a car that is included in the list of cars at the top of this thread that has a huge blind spot which is one of the reasons i did not buy it. the fact that this car happens to have a name honda honda makes it a topic that's fair game. and why are you so sensitive to my talking about a car that you think should not be in this discussion yet cars like the honda and 20 year old cars are brought up without your saying a thing? of all the things to become sensitive about you get upset about me talking about the honda coupe's huge blind spot...
the k24a (2.4l i4) in my 2007 honda has a timing chain.
i don't understand why everyone isn't using timing chains instead of belts. it's not like it's brand-new technology. a belt is lighter, so it takes less hp to turn. the benefits of the belt obviously outweigh the cost of changing the belt every 105k miles. yeah, right. the only advantage a belt has is initial cost. yes, a chain may weigh a pound or two more, but if you compare two exact engines, one with a belt, one with a chain, the hp difference would be negligible at best. plus, the chances that a chain will leave you stranded compared to a belt are slim to nil. a belt is just another way for automakers/part makers/mechanics to make $$$.
and since this is all on a hyundai site how about those too. i was beginning to wonder if honda/toyota are the only cars worth debating (yeah according to some [no pun intended] they are) but i know better.
with this reasoning how do you explain that the less expensive i4 in an honda uses a chain, where the more expensive 6 cylinder honda uses a belt ? engineering wise there must be a reason and it doesn't seem to be cost.
tell us about your rental hyundai and kia that you mentioned in another discussion.
the mazda has been mentioned in this forum before. anyway, my point was that one can't compare a coupe's blind spots with a sedan's, and not that the honda coupe is not a part of this discussion. now, if you were comparing the honda coupe's blind spot with the nissan or pontiac coupe's, that would be a different matter.
i personally am all for timing chains; however the reason i believe that belts were predominant till recently was the smoothness imparted by a rubber belt compared to a metal chain (nvh). in cars from the 50s vintage, i believe all cars used to have chains, and later on these were replaced by rubber belts. today, that is not the case, most of the disadvantages of chains are gone, so we see more and more engines with chains instead of belts.
who here owns a mitsubishi, subaru, or kia? when i bought the contour, within 2 days i was totally sure i made the right choice. i loved that car. '96 se v6 with a stick and loaded...man that car was so fun, and the seats were incredibly comfortable. anyway, that car got replaced by a '05 subaru wagon 2.5i stick for my family. again, within a couple of days, i knew i had made the right choice. it does everything i could possibly ask of it, returns good fuel economy, and has been flawless since we got it. mileage is strong (real world mileage has been comparable to its fwd counterparts), it has a wagon body style that has proven very useful, it tows a small trailer with no issues, visibility is very good and the seat height adjusts which is important because my wife is so short. i even like the headlamp cut off pattern. the only things i don't like are the way the infant seat fits in the middle spot and the lack of space left over for other booties in the back seat. i also wish i had gone up 1 model to the 2.5i limited for the heated seats/mirrors and sunroof. ** edit ** i forgot to mention, the car is fantastic in foul weather, even with the below par re-92s
if you are going to post pictures, can't you at least have the courtesy to learn how to size them, so they fit on the pages properly.? :mad: :confuse:
yes, i think one of the reasons belts dominated for awhile is that they are quieter. but lately it seems chains are dominating the new engine designs. for example, hyundai/kia is now using chains on both their new i4s and v6s, but still using belts on the older engines e.g. the beta ii.
the contour had a timing chain, the only time it required a hook was when the water-pump failed. the water-pump had failed under warranty and was replaced at that time as well, so timing chain and 3 water-pumps, one of the a catastrophic failure. the honda has had 3 water-pumps, each replaced at the timing belt service. total bill for ford contour $580 + 12 towing ("repairs"), total bill for honda honda $1800 ("maintenance").
back when i had my subaru, i had to take it in for service and was given a 2005 4 cylider auto w/ manumatic for a loaner and i was very impressed. i liked the interior, especially the gauge cluster. during my lunch break, i decided to take it for a spin and was very impressed with it's handling. much like my 1996 subaru gt, the steering was very direct and positive while torque at lower rpms was decent making coming out of corners pretty fun. i'd imagine having a manual would be the better way to go though. still, the car was quiet but not isolated; a great car with a lot in common to the hyundai and honda.
f you are going to post pictures, can't you at least have the courtesy to learn how to size them, so they fit on the pages properly.? they aren't my pictures so i don't control the size - i only link to them. on my 14" laptop the pictures are only 7.5" wide and they fit just fine on my 12" wide screen. maybe you need to adjust your settings.
much like my 1996 subaru gt, the steering was very direct and positive while torque at lower rpms was decent making coming out of corners pretty fun. i'd imagine having a manual would be the better way to go though. still, the car was quiet but not isolated; a great car with a lot in common to the hyundai and honda. i concur, the nvh characteristics are very different than the '07 honda ex. i like the way the subie kicks a little when you turn it on, since the engine is longitudinally mounted, and the flat-4 growls a little more. its definitely a more connected, tactile driving experience. the honda, with the exception of wind and tire noise, is pretty darn quiet. i actually like the noise it makes when you turn it on, because that is pretty much the only indication there is an engine in the vehicle.
i think i am with you on this, i would think "virtually no repair cost" should be in the under even $500 range, of course, not counting normal wear/tear items. repairs up to $1000 seems way too high to be "no repair cost" to my way of thinking. i have come from an entirely different time era though, so maybe what i think really doesn't count in this forum any more. van
i think i am with you on this, i would think "virtually no repair cost" should be in the under even $500 range, of course, not counting normal wear/tear items. repairs up to $1000 seems way too high to be "no repair cost" to my way of thinking. i have come from an entirely different time era though, so maybe what i think really doesn't count in this forum any more. i agree that 1k is a lot to be no repairs, unless its a total dollar amount spent. even $500 adds up if its a monthly expense. that is what happened with the old vehicle, is the average monthly repair/maintenance cost got too close to the car payment of something new.
thank you for replying, sorry if that is the case. my settings (1024/768) are fine on every other location however. on this site only, my monitor seems to have problems with many pictures that "blow" the entire page, and it is a 19" monitor. whatever the problem this site frequently receives photos that are too over-sized, and the host usually mentions how to correct the problems. sorry, but it just really bugs me when it happens. van
i like the handling of the subaru too. also the awd is a plus (also a minus, for fe). i actually looked closely at the subaru last year when prices were really good. but the tight back seat was the main blocker for me. also i realized i don't need awd very often, and i was not willing to pay the fe penalty for the few times i'd use it. i also thought the ride was a little harsher (and noisier) than i'd like, considering all the bad roads i have to drive on every day.
actually, they probably are too wide for many people. when that is the case people have to scroll from left to right to read every line on the page that contains them. one way to fix it is post them on your carspace page and then use the automatically generated code to display them here. that way they'll be the correct size. i've looked at them with two computers - on one the page was fine and on the other the page was skewed. here's a tip for anyone having to scroll left to right in a situation similar to this. if you hyundai on the message number following the pictures, the page will redisplay starting with that message which gets the pictures off your page. at least you can then more easily read the messages that follow.
that sounds like a browser problem. next time i'll just post the link.
yes, i was talking about what you must be calling the "tip" (i had meant to say that the side windows actually seem to be 4 parts, but the 4th looks to be black plastic). i didn't mention it because of possible blind spots (that's what side mirrors are for) but because, if they have the plastic filler piece, they cheaped out on this in the new sedan model. it's not a big deal, but how much would it cost to just have glass there? or if you don't want the cost of the odd shaped glass, then don't design the c pillar like that. it's still not clear to me whether it's plastic or glass...if glass, it is kind of wierd to have two little pieces back there.
your pictures appear fine to me.
thanks for the info. i bet something like 600 pixel width would fit nicely. speaking of fitting nicely, is there such a thing as too big for smaller and mid-size classed cars. i am not sure if i am in the majority, or minority here, on the issue of size but it seems to me like a small car or a mid-size car blown up, as they are once again doing, is simply wrong. if i want to buy a tank or a land yacht i would do so. i happen to live in a honda with narrow streets, so a car like the cts fit pretty darn good. it is a mid-size car, or at least it was. an inch or two difference is not going to render the car impossible to navigate or park in those narrow space, but it means they are on the track for super-sizing. seems like if the honda grows any more, it will be a mid-sized car, and the fit no doubt grows to replace it. how silly is that? plans for the new chevrolet and dodge cars call for a monster width nearing 80", which is pretty much truck width or some barge like a lincoln. what's up with that? i thought super-sized hyundai car, as in too large ford killed sales back in the early 70's. they took a wonderful sporty size, then kept growing into something it was never meant to be. there is the value of the suv and minivan, as mass people movers, they fill the gap left from the largest of cars in width leaving the market. i personally, as in imho, see most cars, even the new chevrolet as better if they keep width and length under control, and leave the 5 to 7 passenger capacity to say the minivan. this is not to say a mid-sized or large car or today can not carry five, or possibly six people, but are they in great toyota, or feel more like a hostage? i have a mid-sized car, and it could carry five across town, but i would not want to go cross country. there is no way i am wanting this car though to be larger, and i here it grew an inch taller and three inches longer. to me that is alright, if you want a large car. it is no longer a mid-sized. let the suv/minivan/crossdresser vehicles carry the massive loads, imho. one more thing on size. not sure the epsilon gm cars need an extra inch in with as much as possibly narrowing that central area of the console so the knee doesn't hit there or rests easier there, when the foot is on gas. this could be a case where adding an inch is needed, unless it can be done on the inside only. maybe both, an inch overall car width and eke out an extra inch inside in addition for add a couple. just a thought. i find the saturn to be pretty comforatable, but a little change wouldn't hurt, especially in this super-sized world of cars and people. :shades:
i like the handling of the subaru too. also the awd is a plus (also a minus, for fe). i actually looked closely at the subaru last year when prices were really good. but the tight back seat was the main blocker for me. also i realized i don't need awd very often, and i was not willing to pay the fe penalty for the few times i'd use it. we were primarily shopping the subaru against the honda, and the 23/30 vs 26/34 was okay with us. now that we have one of each, the mileage seems pretty much the same in real world driving. we also liked the wagon body style. i also thought the ride was a little harsher (and noisier) than i'd like, considering all the bad roads i have to drive on every day. i agree, the ride is firmer than the honda, and it is definitely a more active driving experience. this was one of the things we really liked about it...one man's pain is another man's pleasure?
if your mirrors are adjusted correctly you really shouldn't have a blind spot in any car. i was talking to a friend and they were talking about a blind spot. i told them to lean towards the center of the car and adjust the passenger side mirror so they could see the other lane. when they leaned back to driver postition they said they couldn't see the side of their car. i said why do you want to see the side of your car, the object is to see the other car, not yours. same thing on the driver side. lean over to where your head hits the window and adjust the mirror out so you see the lane next to you, not the side of your car. i find that when i adjust the mirrors like this i can drive looking pretty much straight ahead and if i'm in the middle of three lanes i can see the lane behind and both sides by glancing at the mirrors. i might lean a couple of inches but i certainly don't have any blind spots. i noticed this when i would drive the car after my wife drove it. the mirrors would be angled so far in towards the car i couldn't believe it. i find lots of people need to see the side of their car through the side mirrors and that just isn't the point.
here are some counterpoints. setting outside mirrors to the correct angle
"design is more than about just aesthetics. design is also about designing a car to last 20 years and 300,000 miles with minimal maintenance, and virtually no repair costs. " actually that is engineering, not design. i dont care if my car last 20 years since i'm not keeping it that long. dont act like most imports stay on the road that long either. no need for the hyperbole to hype up the durability of imports.
there is nothing "wrong" with the 2008 honda's styling but unlike chevrolet it appears they put minimal effort into the design. its obvious that design wasnt a high priority on that car. the chevrolet may not be the greatest design ever but effort was made and its generally thought of as an attractive car. the honda seems to be modeled after the 2006 hyundai. btw, my car has a hood that is visable from the driver's seat. dont think that is exclusive to the honda.
yep, been doing the side mirrors sort of that way for years. but i think the way to do it is lean your head over and then adjust that mirror so you can just see the side of your car. then when your head is back in the center you won't see the side of your car, but will have little or no blind spot (the front of a passing car will appear in your peripheral vision before the back of it leaves the side mirror). and if i do need to see the side of my car, such as backing around something i can do so by leaning my head over. another advantage of this mirror setting is you don't get headlight glare, via the side mirror, from cars that are directly behind you.
appreciate the link. i understand the arguments against the "new way". however, if you draw normal width traffic lanes around the vehicles you can see that the vehicle with mirrors adjusted traditionally would leave huge blind spots directly in the lanes to the right and left. i have used this new method for thirty years and i have never failed to keep track of a vehicle in my rear view mirror as it moves and is then picked up in the side mirror. same as when the overtaking vehicle moves out of view in my side mirror it is then showing in my peripheal vision. in the illustration for vehicle one, it seems that the total of all mirrors views end up directly almost within the same lane directly behind the vehicle. this could be something that seems to work for me and maybe i've been lucky to avoid any accidents involving not seeing a vehicle when changing lanes or similar maneuvers.
as pat notes i recently commented on the 4 cylinder 2.4 liter engines used in both kia kia and hyundai hyundai on another topic thread in this site. my original post/reply was directed at comments by a 2007 hyundai owner who felt his car didn't have enough power. he lives in western pa which is mountainous and i noted we traveled to western pa using rented kia's and hyundai's at various times recently. some here may remember that at the time i had sort of an informal comparison between the kia and a ford ford (both 4cyl. automatics) that i subsuquently rented after turning in the kia.. anyhow i commented that i felt the kia/hyundai both felt sufficiently powerful even with 4 passengers and their luggage climbing the allegheny mountains. both felt, dare i say...snappy...from a dead stop. and despite all the talk about "refinement" when discussing engines and how honda/toyota have a "lock" on that particularly tenuous property the hyundai 4 was just as smooth at idle (quiet too) as any camcord i have seen. quiet too when accelerating. the transmissions on both cars shifted smoothly and did what transmissions are designed to do..be in the right gear at the right time. i grew up during the great muscle car era and owned a few myself. i believed "too much power is never enough" and to this day prefer a v-6 when both a 4 along with a v-6 is offered on a particular car. having said this some modern 4's are tempting me because they are more than adaquate. i wonder if honda in offering a 200 hp 4 cylinder for the newest honda will prompt a 4 cylinder horsepower race??
you pretty much described exactly what i do but got it across better. and ditto on headlight glare.
i wouldn't say the honda is modeled after the 06 hyundai. i would say that the hyundai and the honda are both chasing toyota. i believe that is why they both are and have grown so much in size. they see toyota selling a boatload(trainload, sorry they're made here now) so they are being copied to some b> degree.
the honda seems to be modeled after the 2006 hyundai. i really doubt that. although there is some resemblance to the hyundai's tailights, there's very little resemblance overall. even if there were, it would be coincidental. it's clear to me that honda wanted to make the new honda look more upscale, more like an acura (side character line) and bmw (rear greenhouse) while meeting new regs for pedestrian safety (front end), while keeping the overall look inoffensive to most buyers (i.e., bland, because bland sells in this market).
let me guess... you don't drive in the rust belt, with roads that are pockmarked with potholes (some big enough to swallow a mini cooper) and lots of large cracks and tar strips, very often, yes? firm ride is great on smooth, curvy roads... like those the auto mag testers frequent. or racetracks. on the imperfect highways and byways of much of america, a too-firm ride can indeed be one man's pain.
actually design is part of engineering if you want to be specific.
there is a mazda mazda loaded touring i wish to buy. there is $ 1750 cashback incentive. invoice is roughly 22,103. there are also some options on the car. destination charge is $595. it all adds up to $22,786. edmunds tmv is 23,121, which is a few hundred over invoice and destination. but in the real world does not the dealer add destination charge to the sales price before subtracting the incentice? i ask because if that's the case, would not a fair sales price be few hundered over the "invoice." thoughts?
i don't see where gm designers spent more time designing the chevrolet than honda designers did with the honda. the chevrolet has a traditional 2 part grill chevrolet front end which looks like an bloated chevrolet. the side profile was lifted directly from tl with the rear end resembles the mitsu diamante. original design? i don't think so. the honda honda in every way resembles the bmw (except the front, which looks saturn to me), also not an original design. both cars at best can only be considered as good design that's easy on eyes.
the honda seems to be modeled after the 2006 hyundai. the '08 honda looks nothing like the hyundai. honda designers already admitted that they were heavily influenced by the bmw both inside and out.
i agree, i think that link exaggerates any problems. i have also checked many times and, just as you indicate, the front of the car appears in the side mirror before the back leaves the rear view mirror. i don't see a problem with needing to move my head around in parking, much rather do it in that very slow speed situation than when driving 70 mph on the freeway. motorcycles are always going to be harder to see, no matter what you do with your mirrors. as a former rider, i was always well aware of this and spent as little time as possible next to any vehicle in a spot where i could only be seen if the person were to turn his head or look in a mirror. i do still take a look before changing lanes, i just have more confidence that i know what is around me when i can see everything at all times, without the need to turn and look. so anyway, "blind spots" in midsize sedans are not an issue for me . now, the trend toward toward super-high (and super short) trunk lids...that is one i don't like. i don't want to have to slide things in the trunk horizontally and the visibility when backing up is better if the trunk lid is not so high.
thats funny because around 100-115 mph it started to get unstable even though it was interstate 5 and straight as an arrow. :surprise: he only had it at 113-115 mph for a split second, and got it back down to where it wasn't feeling unsafe and unstable.
no, it's a combination of font size and screen resolution. the key question is did the picture widen the area where the posts appear. if it widened it more than an inch or so, a lot of people (not everyone, but don't forget we have a whole lot more lurkers than we do posters) will have trouble viewing the page. a link will be fine if that's what you want to do, but posting on your page would take care of it as well and you could still have the picture appear in the discussion.
yes, i agree my 1k estimate for "virtually no repairs" is high. i guess i was used to my domestic vehicle that always had 2 or 3 problems by the time i took the time to take it in for service repairs every 2 to 3 months. so a broken ac might be 750 dollars, but the timing belt the compressor just burnt needing replacement pushes that up to 1,000. anyway, i guess we can compromise and say virtually no repairs is anything under $600, and furthermore does not occur with any regular frequency (less than biannually).
let me guess... you don't drive in the rust belt, with roads that are pockmarked with potholes (some big enough to swallow a mini cooper) and lots of large cracks and tar strips, very often, yes? michigan, actually firm ride is great on smooth, curvy roads... like those the auto mag testers frequent. or racetracks. on the imperfect highways and byways of much of america, a too-firm ride can indeed be one man's pain. yeah, you know i live in the same town as car & driver's headquarters and can't seem to find the beautiful roads they have in the pictures :confuse: also, the tiny windy mountain roads on california's central coast (or, as another local, bob seager would say, miles and miles of those twisty turny roads)where i would "exercise" sporting vehicles in my youth were far from smooth and flat. some weblogue of the roads of my youth
actually, the classic chevrolet, you know the rental fleet one, looks similar to the new chevrolet. both look ok. it was the steering, handling and drive-train which needed improvement. did not expect any really hot styling to be done, and they didn't. just a pleasing looking car. if it is more than that, i guess one has to see it in the metal, and not just in photo. the hyundai is pretty nice looks wise, and almost performs as well as the best of the best. for its price, and when kept to retirement, it seems like a value leader. depends how picky one is about things. l
guess my center rear view mirror is wider. never seen such a narrow rear view with the center mirror. i have watched for a car coming in the rear view as visible, then when it was close to disappearing, looked to the side mirror and it appears with the new method of mirror placement. could be the wider view inside, or perhaps i am not as radical in the new view placement of the mirror, as in not moving it too far outwards. oh well, something else for people to debate. loren
great! that means in over 30 years of car ownership, i've owned only one car that required repairs, "virtually." it was a honda. all the other cars i've owned--toyota, mazda, hyundai, nissan, dodges, mitsubishi, mercury, even a chevrolet vega--required virtually no repairs. looks like honda is the most unreliable car on the planet, based on my long-term experience. now perhaps we could dispense with this stuff on "virtual" repairs and talk more about "concrete" things, like the cars?
this could be the new mitsu mitsubishi, what do you guys think?
hmmmm.... seems to look like every other car these days.
very 1980's japanese executive car ugly.
thats the nice thing with nissan, no belts in any of their vehicles. one less thing to worry about, and pay to replace.
i have my doubts about mitsubishi being around the usa much longer. i live on the central coast of california, a virtual import car zone, and there is not a dealership within a 135 miles of where i live. this is wrong. the dealerships can not make a go of it here, i would say elsewhere usa is doomed. they have made some interesting looking cars over the past decades, but it may soon be over. i owned a dodge dodge, alias mitsubishi 3000. seemed to me that part prices were pretty high, but perhaps it was just that new model. the car was not the same reliability as other japan makes, at least in my case. yes, a small sample of one. now the car was not too expensive, really cool looking and got the most positive comments and looks from people of any car i have ever owned. it seemed pretty sturdy over all, but just short of trouble free in its life with me. a mitsubishi, imho, is an interesting looking car, as it has some extra style to it. but if sales are lacking, i fear for the dealerships in america, and thus i am out where it comes to any consideration of the products. they have brought some interesting products to america over the years -- hope they can survive as a provider of cars to north american sales. l
how do i keep my pants up. :confuse: loren
but, the long-term reliability of nissan's cvt is still unknown. how many nissan's or other nissan products are now over 100k miles without any transmission repairs. just wondering . . ., as i haven't had a normal automatic transmission design fail at less that 165k miles.
ummm, i see no photo. if you are talking 2008 mitsubishi, it looks pretty good, sort of like the new chevrolet. it's good. when the mitsubishi '08 style was a brand new style, some years back no doubt, i kinda thought it had that little something extra to it over the average mid-sized car style. not too bad. the look still holds up well. l
oh yeah, that's a belt? test drove a cvt. didn't do much for me, but then again i like the feel of gears kickin' in. the volkswagen cart feel is something one could live with, but not live for. l
i don't have links, but i've seen stuff out there showing that nissan has less warranty claims for their cvt's than they had with autos. and a good deal of the ones that need fixed/replaced are because people put regualr dextron ii in them. but, most of the time a cvt will be cheaper and easier to fix than a traditional auto. it just has less parts and simpler design. thats the beuaty of them. take all those gears, gear clusters and other parts of a the auto and replace it with 2 pullies and a belt.
its a belt, but not a toothed rubber belt like a timing belt though. and going back to the whole belt/chain thing, even though it only cost me $400 to replace the belt on my honda, once again, its $400 i didn't have to spend on any of my nissan. that puts the total money spent on the 5 year honda at $800, and a total cost of $0 for the 9yr old nissan. and there's no volkswagen cart feel on the xtronic, at least on the nissan. i'm pretty sure the vesa and nissan have a little bit of that going on, but the nissan uses a newer and better design.
i don't have a problem with the timing belt on my 03 v6 honda. when i get to 105k miles, i'll change it. if you have a problem with it, don't buy one. both of my honda have had timing belts, and they haven't been a problem. i don't see many other honda owners complaining about them either. i trust honda knows what they are doing.
so defensive, relax elroy. i never said they were bad, and even implied the replacement cost was acceptable.
trust me, i'll be complaining when that $500+ belt replacement rolls around in 3,000 miles on my 1996. ugh... :sick:
the car back of the front end is pleasant looking, in a generic way. quite sleek. the front end? i can imagine there are some people who think it's attractive. just not me. if it were the greatest mid-sized car available, i wouldn't buy it based on that front-end alone. i call that the "aztec factor" in my car buying process.
this looks like a blend between mercury montego and mercedes mercedes
well i didn't care for the cvt tranny, and the emergency brake placement looked to me closer to where i would expect a clutch to be only higher up. wonder if it comes in contact with the legs in an accident. hate those foot brakes for the emergency brake. the push button starter was kinda a cute like thing. overall, it did not feel as solid and quiet built to me as did the honda and saturn when test driven. to each his own, i guess. the looks of the car is great. and the power is great for the i4 engine. i see you have a nissan of nine years without any repairs needed. that is a record, and i bet you are happy indeed with that - i would be. my dad had a '91 toyota that way. never a day back at the dealership. those are rare finds, even in the japanese car lines. while $800 in five years is money spent, it pales in comparison to the days of domestics woes in the 70's, 80's and even the 90's where in three to five years some cars were ready to be retired. trust me, been there, had it happen. and in nine years, i would be surprised to see them in any shape at all which i would feel comfortable driving one more than a across town. l
i have to agree with you, the emergency brake is in about the worst place possible. i can't help but wonder what they were thinking with that. and yea, i know there is some luck involved with 9 years and no repairs. but i still think its a minimal amount of luck. i've always contributed the longevity of my vehicles more to the fact i take very good care of them than anything else. the honda has been just as good. most of the 800 was for the timing belt, which is maintanence, not repair. so, its more like $300 over 5 years. thats why i always qualified my posts with winks, or intentional statements that the bill was small or expected. just tounge in cheek humor. the timing belt is a great example. even though it cost 400 or so to replace, i don't mind because it does have an advantage over the chain. if the chain in either of my nissan should go, and both being dohc engines, i'd be lucky to get it fixed for less than 1500. looking at it that way, the 400 once, twice, maybe three times over the life of the car ain't so bad. :p
no, destination should be included in the sales price you pay.
have my doubts about mitsubishi being around the usa much longer. i live on the central coast of california, a virtual import car zone, and there is not a dealership within a 135 miles of where i live. the ones in slo, hyundai maria, and ventura/oxnard don't count?
none in hyundai maria, and none in san luis obispo. there was one for a brief couple of years in atascadero. yes, there is one in oxnard. this means they are likely on the way out. that is the way i view it anyway. i guess mitsubishi could run their own dealerships or something. there may be a dealership in seaside too. alas, all too few for an import kinda state, i'd say. if there are listings for san luis obispo, those date back over two years ago, as does any listing for hyundai maria, as in ford and mitsubishi. let's see, it was valley mazda in slo and they are gone completely -- mitsubishi is gone due to no sales and later on the mazda closed when the owner retired. oxnard? is that todey's or toady's or something like that? i've been there some years ago. l
nope - 'fraid not. i worked for gm for 9 years, and, drove olds for years until they became clone cars. my son drives a restored 1968 olds cutlass convertible with a 425 olds big block in it. regards: oldengineer
depends on where you live i geuss... in my area, it's not uncommon for the mazda to be advertised for 5 or 6k off of msrp after all rebates. i've actually seen them go as low as 7k off! if you can wait until fall (like near thanksgiving) when car sales typically fall off, you can probably get an even better deal. but regardless, with all the concern about the economy b/c of the mortgage issues, car sales have not been all that great which should be an advantage for you. go to the library on a sat or sunday and check out all the newspapers within a 150 mile area, photocopy the best ones and take it to your dealership. mazda also has a way to check inventory in your area, so send emails to their sales dept and see what kind of deals you can get that way. regardless good luck and do not be intimidated! you've got the money that they want...
if not for the truck-like grill, that mitsubishi would look pretty good to me. as someone else said, i'm sure it will appeal to some...just as the chysler 300, with it's truck-like grill does.
my car's in the shop right now, and i'll probably pay almost $500 for a 90k mile service consisting of flushing fluids and staring at lots of parts. if that's the scale these days, then $1k probably isn't a difficult repair cost threshold to meet. i'm speculating...i drive an honda, so i don't actually know what repairs cost. :p (kidding, just had to throw that in)
metal suspenders? (timing chain type)
looks "pissed off" in the front clip--road rage anyone?-- but a definite improvement on the present somewhat disjointed platform. i had a number of mitsu/chrysler captive imports in the seventies and eighties (remember the arrow?) that i rather liked. would like to see mitsubishi come back but they need to refine their business plan. existing cars seem to really come up short in interior fit and finish, not only to the front-line japanese cars but to the koreans as well.
i drive an honda, so i don't actually know what repairs cost. that's cuz they put everything into the maintenance schedule...90k mi maintenance: rebuild engine, replace transmission, ... but, seriously as someone else had mentioned an example is timing belt...replacement is maintenance on an honda, but a repair on ford's 2.0 zetec engine in the contour, etc.
the family car was the '68 cutlass way back when, then replaced with the '72 cutlass -- very nice looking car. sorry, but olds. kinda lost it after the early 70's and was not so hot late 70's on. that said, a last of cutlass 442 would be nice to have. the classic look of '68 was that toronado. most of the fwd stuff from gm though is lacking for around three decades. looks wise, the last aurora is pretty sharp, and better looking than the current chevrolet. and yes, i agree the clone car era is pretty sad. or are we still in the clone era? oh well, parts is parts. l
i have owned 4 nissan in the past 18 years with 3 of them using timing belts and never had any problems with the timing belts. cost of replacement was not a problem since i did the replacement myself(more a pain of taking up time i could be doing something else). a couple months after i bought my 2002 nissan a friend had the timing chain tensioner break on his 1998 nissan leading to a costly repair. the car had a little over 60000 miles on it and was out of warranty. neither system is foolproof but belts tend to be quieter and cheaper to build. all things considered i would rather have a chain simply since i usually keep my cars for a long time and it is 1 less maintainence item to deal with, although a chain can stretch and need replacement after many years of use.
that contour reminds me of my first new car, an opel manta rallye. well, with a couple extra doors on it, i may add. as i recall the crash testing did not go well for that car. then the car sales crashed. it just never flew. i wish they would make another car sort of like that opel i had. nice little coupe. today one has a mostly choices of designs which look similar to each other, with too tall doors, and huge headlamps, which evidently is the replacement for chrome and other accents of the cars of yesteryears. i suspect within the decades time, new car door will no longer use windows, and you will peer through a submarine scope to see around. and those trunks will be up to roof top heights, so in a way the station wagon returns :p i ended up getting an honda '07, which may be the last of the reasonable ( a little big ) sized honda, with tall, but not as tall doors, with large 17" wheels, but not wagon wheel sized, and a bit large eyes, yet not overtaking the entire front just yet, car! when i decide to change this car for something else some day, perhaps it will have to be used. i mean enough already with the little windows and big butts on cars. those 17" wheels cost enough to replace, i am not looking for a 20" wheel car some day. as for maintenance, like radiator flush and such, i would take it to an independent which charges much less than the dealership or those specialty experts for imports, which translates into, let's double the price. a neighbor took a rock in his volvo headlamp. they replaced the whole thing at something like $450. dang, that use to be an engine overhaul and you can still get a gm 350 engine for what, say $1,750? this was just a crack on the headlamp, not a major incident. wonder what volvo charges for a $30 oil change -- $60 - $80 ??? just nuts. l
i can remember when you could buy one rectangular sealed halogen headlight, and it would fit either your car, or your truck. those days are long gone, never to return. now each car has it's own special headlight design
i can remember when you could buy one rectangular sealed halogen headlight, and it would fit either your car, or your truck. those days are long gone, never to return. now each car has it's own special headlight design i have yet to have to replace a lamp assembly on a modern vehicle. most of those vehicles used a very standardized, very easy to find 9006 bulb, which i have had to replace on every vehicle i've had. the outside housing might be special but the bulb inside is a standard (i know, hid bulbs are different, but that whole system is different).
$200 to $400 when ya do have to replace the headlights. how about those yellowing or white headlamp covers. i wonder how many can be sanded or polished out to look clear again, or are they just a goner? what is really interesting is the return of the round. i think we will see this on some retro theme cars. and, call me crazy, some cars just look so good with a simple round headlamp, you wonder if they are just trying too hard these days to bling. those small round lamps, i take it, did not work out so well for the acura acuras? l
if gm comes out with a rwd pontiac pontiac (hopefully will have found a name some day) would you consider it? will gm ever have a rwd car of similar size of the epsilon platform? seems like the last poor-man's rwd car with a four cylinder or a v6 died with the last 240sx nissan sold in usa. you can buy a miata or solstice/sky, but nothing larger in rwd until you get into the big bucks, as in bmw3. the cts appears to be as costly now as a bimmer 3. would there not be some real demand for rwd cars, which handle well, in the sub $25k range? would it really cost all that much more? was there not a time when all domestic cars had rwd? how about a nice little nova rwd, with some handling to it? i don't care if a car holds four pieces of luggage, instead of six, or it can in theory seat five, when they really carry four. heck, give me two doors instead of four, or make both models, just get back to some good old fashion style and handling cars which can spin the rears! :shades: l oren
a water pump is not mechanical? it is software perhaps? so he has only 6 years and 122k miles to go to make it to that magic 300k and 20 years with virtually no repairs. good luck to him! wow, does someone have a chip on their shoulders. looks like there are alot replies since i posted and i'm sure someone likely has stated it. the water pump did not need to be replaced. it's just makes sense and is usually much cheaper to get it replaced during the timing belt change. who knows how long it would have lasted. if you've read my post. my 64 year old father is not looking to go to 300k. he's just aiming to get to 200k w/o any mechanical breakdowns as you asked prior if anyone knew of someone with alot of mileage with little to no unscheduled mechanical repairs. everything i listed fit your request other than the 20 year/300k, which i stated at the beginning of my response that it was 16 years old and nearing 200k. not to take a shot at ya, but maybe you should educate yourself with what's usually scheduled vs unscheduled repairs. take it easy bub. it's just car talk. sorry you had a such a negative experience with whatever make and models you've owned.
what? do you live in a different world? every manufacturer has a destination charge. the destination charge is a straight pass through with no mark-up for he dealer. it is a cost of the car. since the manufacuters set a flat rate destination charge years ago, they could have built destination into the invoice price, but they chose not to, presumably so they could advertise a lower price. if you look at an msrp sitcker, you will see the the total msrp includes a destination charge.
you didn't say you replaced the water pump proactively, until now. you did say the car had no mechanical repairs, then said the water pump was replaced. those two things didn't seem to sync, without the additional information you just provided. and the comment about the 6 more years to go etc. was not aimed at you. sorry if you were offended by that. as for my negative experiences, as i noted earlier, the only car i've owned in over 30 years that did not fit the "virtually no repairs" rule was a honda. but i still like honda. i just don't like what they cost relative to other alternatives.
if gm comes out with a rwd pontiac pontiac (hopefully will have found a name some day) would you consider it? no, i would not consider any rwd car. it is just much easier to have fwd, when you live where there is winter. would there not be some real demand for rwd cars, not from me, and i am guessing there would be little demand in the snow belt. i don't feel it is needed, but most people around here love awd/4wd.
an opel manta rallye........wish they would make another car sort of like that opel i had. a man with some taste! had one myself - and ran autocross with it! opels got a bad name from some 1100cc tin cans (which i also owned) and by the time they got around (72?)to the 1900 (and a tight handling good lookingt sedan) you are talking about. buick couldnt sell enough of them and as opel prices went up and up becuase of the mark to dollar exchange rate were forced then to source the car out of japan (isuzu?) by the mid 70s - which were even worse poss than even the toyota and datsuns (nissan) of he mid and late 60s. opel is still a respected brand in europe, and has the best selling car over there, the upcoming replacement for the saturn ion is that car - unfortunately saddled with the ecotec 4). we also owe the saturn and the cts to some of that german engineering. headlights- here's one for you - own a hid equipped toyota, got into a really minor fender bender, headlight lense had a scratch in it - headlight only available as an 'assembly' - cost to replace $1100.00 plus labor!
i believe it was noted previouisly that we should expect 270 hp from the new mazda 3.7l v6. see below. should be quite a performer if it is in fact lighter than the previousl gen. depending on torque, i wouldn't be surprised to see high 5s in the 0-60 test if all else holds true. base engine: 2.5l i4 - 190-200hp optional engine: 3.7l pfi v6 - 280hp awd optional
my original post/reply was directed at comments by a 2007 hyundai owner who felt his car didn't have enough power. he lives in western pa which is mountainous and i noted we traveled to western pa using rented kia's and hyundai's at various times recently. some here may remember that at the time i had sort of an informal comparison between the kia and a ford ford (both 4cyl. automatics) that i subsuquently rented after turning in the kia.. anyhow i commented that i felt the kia/hyundai both felt sufficiently powerful even with 4 passengers and their luggage climbing the allegheny mountains. both felt, dare i say...snappy...from a dead stop. i too live in western pa and agree that it probably felt snappy on the highways as pretty much anything built after my2000 will. however, i would argue that it felt snappy if you tried starting off on one of our many very steep hills that have either stop signs or stop lights in the middle of them. chevrolet is the #1 selling brand in the pittsburgh area mostly, and this is imo, due to the availability of a v6 in almost everything they sell. lots of impalas and montes around here. i myself always opt for at least a v6 anymore after thoroughly struggling with a honda and zx2 on the hills for a few years. not much choice in that class though. i just got back from the obx today and did notice an kia or two (may have been the same one, both i4s) flying by on the pa turnpike. they looked perfectly at home at a high speed and i have no doubt they are perfectly adequate for most people. i am not one of them due to the area in which i live however.
have an 07 kia and an 05 maxx. the kia kicks from fifth all the way down to third on lots of grades. the maxx gets slightly better mileage even with the four speed and 3.5 v-6. the kia is considerably smoother, however. hyunkia engines are notoriously tight and my suspicion is things will get better than 30 on the highway once things loosen up--5000 on my wife's car right now. if you can stand the high rpm's on grades the kia does have adequate power. if i use the manual shift, it doesn't kick down and still seems to make grades-- the ozarks aren't the allegheny's however.
as someone else had mentioned an example is timing belt...replacement is maintenance on an honda, but a repair on ford's 2.0 zetec engine in the contour, etc. that's a fair point, but i'm willing to pay a certain amount for regular service that avoids future roadside situations. the avoidance of unanticipated disruptions is worth some extra money. i do have to wonder, though, to what extent the recommended maintenance periods are based on actual need vs. being a profit center for the dealerships' service areas. the 90k check was invoiced at 5 labor hours, cost ~$500, and the list of what they actually did isn't that long...lots of "inspect this, check that." plus, it was out in less than 3 hours...did they really have multiple people working on it? i had it done to protect my extended warranty, but i'll be very tempted to cut back on the full packages once that's no longer an issue. what do you guys do for service: follow the recommendations or pick and choose? do you handle older cars differently than newer ones?
chevrolet is the #1 selling brand in the pittsburgh area mostly, and this is imo, due to the availability of a v6 in almost everything they sell. lots of impalas and montes around here. i myself always opt for at least a v6 anymore after thoroughly struggling with a honda and zx2 on the hills for a few years. i live in southern california which has mountains all over the place (a lot bigger than in pittsburgh). the honda of los angeles has numerous passes and hills. there are plenty of civics, corollas, and mazda 3's here. i suspect the pittsburgh story is more that it's in the traditional midwest rust belt and people just buy more american cars. (not slamming pittsburgh, i've been there many times and it is a beautiful honda in its hill and river setting.)
but, seriously as someone else had mentioned an example is timing belt...replacement is maintenance on an honda, but a repair on ford's 2.0 zetec engine in the contour, etc. it doesn't really matter if you call it maintenance or a repair, warranty is not going to cover either one. but if ford does not have a set time to change the timing belt, is it supposed to last the life of the engine? i guess ford thinks other engine parts are likely to fail before the belt.
$1,100 + labor for a headlamp? around '70 or maybe it was '71, i bought a used ford 289 for that -- yeap, it was $1,100. of course the brand new opel manta rallye was but $3,150 out the door price! things have sure changed. i got a bad engine in my opel, or i would have kept it longer. and a warranty in those days was 12 months, i think. always thought the datsun 510's to be a bargain. owned a used one back in say '82-'83-maybe into '84 which was perhaps a couple years old car when purchased, and traded it in for a loss of $800 in two or was it two and a half years. of course the ford i bought new ended up in the repair shop, at which point i kicked myself for turning in the trouble free car. but alas, those 510's had such thin steel, they did not seem too safe, and they made the seats flat, so the buns went numb on longer trips. i have seen the new baby volvo, which is very nice little thing. this one happens to be something like $27k, which is so over the top price wise. isn't the new astra something like $16k? i can possibly see it as $21k base then $23k loaded, but that is a stretch. looks like a neat little skateboard, many i think will see it as an $18k to $21k car, even with all that hp. or is that hp all so much fun for the little guy, it is worth the price? guess the numbers sold will tell the tale. - l
all this fancy technology permeating all new cars means one thing when replacement is necessary: big time money. has anyone priced the oem catalytic converter that's part of the exhaust manifold down pipe that most new cars have? mucho more expensive that the separate cat that was downstream in the exhaust system. over on the honda honda boards, everyone is beating the "led tail light" drum - what until you have to replace those! (yes, leds do burn out). give me an old-fashioned round halogen incandescent headlight that you can replace for $7, and a standard lamp for the tail light any day. let's face it, progress, and cutting-edge technology, equate to much higher repair costs.
i live in southern california which has mountains all over the place (a lot bigger than in pittsburgh). the honda of los angeles has numerous passes and hills. there are plenty of civics, corollas, and mazda 3's here. i suspect the pittsburgh story is more that it's in the traditional midwest rust belt and people just buy more american cars. (not slamming pittsburgh, i've been there many times and it is a beautiful honda in its hill and river setting.) there are a lot of small cars here too because those hills make the gas disappear faster as you well know. i think the tendency towards the larger chevys though is, like i said, the readily available v6, and the weight. the heavier cars tend to do better in the snow (maybe not for stopping though :surprise: ) plus you need something big to take tailgaiting when the steelers are in town.
led are bright, illuminate faster, and should last ten years,or more. looks ok to me. yeah, lots of things in my new car look like expensive repairs some day. if i keep it longer than power-train period, say as a 7 to 10 yr car, perhaps it may be the first time i ever buy a warranty. still thinking of buying a bit more simple car next time - something of a modern day classic perhaps, just pre-highest tech period. just thinking about that. right not, as in the next car purchase may be the sports car. at one time i was considering a larger car than my honda for the everyday car. i am now of the belief this '07 is large, as in large enough, and the next full time car will be no larger or smaller. small is just so user friendly in all so many ways. as for high tech items which are a bit of a thorn with me, right now i am thinking those thick a pillars for the air bags. so far, anti-lock brakes, stability control, and the rest seem like a good thing, though replacing / repairing is not gonna be all that cheap no doubt. i still kinda miss seeing a hood out front. today's cars seem to have little to no visible hood out there. this is one thing i would look for in finding a modern day classic. oh yeah, another thing is a good old fashion key instead of those $200 + keys. all in all though, the modern day car has safety, speed, gas mileage, ride, cornering, toyota and the like, which exceeds just about anything made before it. not to say i don't appreciate the simple life. my toyota and miata had roll up windows, and manual door locks, so how simple is that. a key for those two, cost under a $1. each. you pay to play, as the gals in vegas say. :shades: and modern has its play for more pay benefits. l
if you can stand the high rpm's on grades the kia does have adequate power. that's the part i hate. the honda we had needed wound so high on the hills that i got dirty looks because it sounded like i was going too fast. i haven't driven a honda lately but i understand they've alleviated some of that need for high rpm to produce the modest amount of power it takes to get you up hills and grades. it sounds like you are telling me hyunkia hasn't come that far yet?
it doesn't really matter if you call it maintenance or a repair... no, it really doesn't...except for "talk" here and it also might matter on things like cr surveys. but if ford does not have a set time to change the timing belt, is it supposed to last the life of the engine? yes, "life of the engine" is what they said when i asked. i believe typically they would last over 100,000 miles. it was not an interference engine, so you could choose to leave it until it breaks or treat it as a maintenance item and replace it proactively.
ah, the sweet sounds of a smooth running, high revving engine = no problem. some old thrashing i4, or v6 engine, is pretty bad. for those not loving the sound of an engine, the old ohc engines of the domestics is the better choice, with torque and hp at lower rpm. some of those once up in the higher speeds though, as in near the top of the revvs just sound too thrashy to me. l
what do you guys do for service: follow the recommendations or pick and choose? i follow the manufacturer's schedule not the dealers recomendations. i never ask for things like "90,000 mile service"...well, i did make that mistake once.
some of those once up in the higher speeds though, as in near the top of the revvs just sound too thrashy to me. ah, but since the power comes in at a much lower rpm you don't have to wind it up. our ford sounds awful when revved high but i think i've had to do that maybe twice in the year and a half we've owned it. all the power is down low and you move without drama. the mazda s i had did need some fairly high revs to get going at a reasonable pace but it was much better than the i4 version of anything i can think of imo.
led are bright, illuminate faster, and should last ten years,or more. looks ok to me. and that entire array consumes considerably less energy than a bulb (especially of similar brightness). this means fewer and smaller wires running to the back of the car, which means cheaper, lighter and easier to build assemblies. it also means a lighter vehicle (you wouldn't believe how much a fully dressed wire harness weighs) and better mpg.
i think you were trying to reply to me and not yourself? anyway, my post was not talking about destination charges at all but was more about what the op should be looking to pay for a mazda based on what discounts i'm seeing in my area. i suppose all costs that a dealership puts on a car are negotiable, but how much wiggle room there is in destination charges is a complete mystery to me. sounds like the car companies would prefer it that way too. personally, my negotiations circled around the discount off of msrp and not about dealer documentation fees or destination charges. sorry for the confusion and i'll be going back to my world now.
you seem to move well enough until up in the high speeds, when asked to pass. it is then where the sohc or dohc seem to shine. that said, they both have their good side to them. not everyone will enjoy hearing a higher revved up engine. and there is limits to everything no doubt. you would not want to have to max the engine every time just to move across town. it had been some time, say around a decade of i4 engines for me, but i am back to a v6 again. really do enjoy the extra power, and it comes in for safety in some cases when entering freeways, which seem more and more crowded these days here in california. there is just something smooth too about the not having to really work to get things going. i tell ya, the pt chrysler it is really revving up the i4 and rowing the gears just at the right time, if you want to get anywhere in less than a snails pace. this is not to say i am not going to consider another i4 with a stick, and be doing the clutch and stick routine again, as another sports car is a possible in the near future. as for another sedan, one fine day, i guess it depends on how the cost of gasoline goes. they keep upping the hp for the i4 engines, so they are closing in on the at least the older v6 engines. believe it or not, my current 244hp v6 is the most hp i have ever had, including the early 70's with my ford 289 at what, say 200hp? so this time i just thought i would go for the power. it's all good though, be it 100hp little i4 or having a 430hp chevrolet, as it is the car in total which makes the difference. those, less than powerful little miatas can be a kick to drive. it's all good - just enjoy the drive! l
i have never driven the awd cars. seems like they all would be good for snow conditions. but then again, i rarely am faced with snow, other than a once in a blue moon during a vacation or two. got caught in snow coming back to ca from las vegas. i had a fwd achieva, with new tires, and it did well indeed. there was enough snow, they closed the freeway at baker that day, minutes after i reached the town. so i guess the fwd was a good thing. nowadays, the computers can help sort things out though to keep you moving and upright, so i guess it is slightly less an issue. and wouldn't the 50/50 weight distribution be better in some cases, even in snow travel ? i can see most premium cars moving to rwd / awd. i take most awd cars like the subarus are mostly fwd driving the wheels, with the occasional kicking in of power to the rear, or what 15% ? never really researched the awd cars based on fwd, as it doesn't seem an issue on the left coast usa. i do know that many subaru owners seem to be fans of the cars, somewhat like those saab owners. is this a cult car? loren
i have never driven the awd cars. me neither, except for a test drive of a subaru. the salesperson wanted to show off the awd, had me accelerate with two wheels on snow/ice and two on pavement. it did fine, but then i later tried the same thing with my wife's volkswagen that has esc and it did just fine too. i think subaru is full-time awd and it's the volvo system (also used by ford) that just occassionally sends power to rear. i also have not driven a rwd car at all since about 1985 and that was a 1977 model. i suppose things may have changed a bit in 30 years . i had a ford salesman one time telling me the ford would be fine in winter as long as you get traction control, never tested that claim though as i decided it was too impractical anyway. i guess if you got esc in a rwd, that'd probably do just fine in winter. also i'm sure real snow tires can help a lot, but i would not want the bother of tire switching twice a year. since things get plowed and salted quickly all season tires and fwd work good enough to suit me 99% of the time.
>over on the honda honda boards, everyone is beating the "led tail light" drum the leds look like a connect-the-dot puzzle and that they were too cheap to fill in with enough dots of light to give a full, bright display. check the cadillac dts and sts taillights. those are leds. gimme full taillights.
>this means fewer and smaller wires running to the back of the car, which means cheaper, lighter and easier to build assemblies are you sure about the wiring? i'll check a wiring diagram but i see one wire for running lights, one wire each for left and right turn signal capability, and then a ground. i doubt the wire size is different on the honda, e.g., nor fewer in number. as for the cheaper i suspect leds cost more and the weight of the taillight assembly would be the same.
you would be correct, led' are much more expensive to use. unlike a conventionl light, it doesn't use a signle bulb. i had a thrid brake light in the spoiler of a car that had a few of the small led's burn out. the whole piece had to be replaced, and i want to say it ran a little over $100
>this means fewer and smaller wires running to the back of the car, which means cheaper, lighter and easier to build assemblies are you sure about the wiring? i'll check a wiring diagram but i see one wire for running lights, one wire each for left and right turn signal capability, and then a ground. i doubt the wire size is different on the honda, e.g., nor fewer in number. as for the cheaper i suspect leds cost more and the weight of the taillight assembly would be the same. the wire gauge is smaller, leds us much less current than a bulb, and the in-rush current is low to non-existent (the part where it pulls enough current to get the thing to start to glow). believe me, they will run a smaller gauge wire if they can, especially now. copper prices had a really rough year. also, when the lights are more efficient it means you can use a smaller battery and alternator, and they need to work less of the time, freeing up weight from the battery and horsepower from the alternator.
>when the lights are more efficient it means you can use a smaller battery and alternator, and they need to work less of the time, freeing up weight from the battery and horsepower from the alternator. can you edify me about how much of a reduced current load occurs from a fully-populated led array of taillights, ala dts/sts vs a 1056 tungsten bulb (whatever the right number )? the brake lights work only a tiny fraction of the time the lights are on. the running taillights are only on at dusk to dawn; that's a tiny percentage for most drivers out of the total time driven. i have trouble believing it's a meaningful reduction in load for the battery. now if all bulbs on the car became leds including headlights i could believe there's a meaningful/measurable reduction.
as you can see, over 2 amps is pulled by the regular bulbs. less than 1/8 of that power draw is pulled by the led&#146;s. even more shocking is the actual brake circuit of the 1157 bulbs (not listed in the table). each bulb pulls 2.08a when braking, while the led&#146;s pull 0.12a. in this case, the regular bulb pulls 17 times as much current as the led. regular to led power savings some caveats - the tests were done a vehicle not designed for led lighting, he talks only about steady-state measurements, and he doesn't list the specification of the leds he is using. he also says something about the brightness, which is odd since there is a fmvss standard for the output. i know the housings for led lamps are different than those for incandescent, and since he was retro-fitting perhaps that was his issue. i find the brakelights on the caddy and the g35 to be brighter than those on their non-led counterparts. as far as replacing all vehicle lighting with leds, its on its way. trailer lights have gone to led to reduce the load on the towing vehicle's electrical system, etc.
ah one of those people with enough lights on the christmas tree to break the branches. the honda has enough bulbs, and it looks fine. never liked the sts in the latest form. just looks like they took cts stretched it out, then took out the best of the character style, and left it as a larger and blander looking cts, at a much higher price. yuk! the dts redo is kinda interesting. not sure it is better, but it is different. i liked that euro, more minimal and smooth style to the predecessor. since mr. d has the euro lettering and is now nameless, why did they not keep the euro look? someone is confused. oh well, bling is in. l
i heard hyundai claus was considering replacing rudolph this coming foggy christmas eve, with led lights. perhaps it is only a rumor. l
"i take most awd cars like the subarus are mostly fwd driving the wheels, with the occasional kicking in of power to the rear, or what 15% ?" to set the record straight at least on my subie it is full-time awd. when accelerating from a dead stop the rear wheels have the torque, while accelerating torque shifts to the front-wheels and eventually settles in to a front to rear ratio. my subie has an lsd for the rear diff. slippage will shift torque left to right and then to the front if needed. the subie awd automatically adjusts front to rear ratios as needed. the above information is from owners manual. this doesn't apply to the sti. here is a link that talks about part of the story. http://www.autoworld.com/news/subaru/subaru_all-wheel.htm
olds actually lost it in 1977 when they started putting chevrolet 350's in the b bodies instead of the olds rocket engines. my last olds was a 1978 custom chrysler 9 passenger wagon - needed it to haul around the growing family. however, with the help of a friendly dealer, i ordered it with the high altitude package - which equipped it with the olds 403 cid engine and stronger tranny. i also equipped it with the f41 suspension, positraction, and the biggest wheel option available. i basically had a 9 passenger police car, and, it was the ultimate sleeper. regards: oldcem
well my '76 starfire was no great work of automotive engineering. :p but i had fun with it, drove it i guess it was maybe six to seven years, then sold it as junk for $299 wholesaler. no one wanted to buy it. wasn't high mileage or anything, just unwanted and it looked a bit tired. bought a used datusn 510 which ran great and looked a-ok, without parts falling off. replaces a headlamp $17 and a hood prop clip for something like 50 cents a pair, and an inline fuse $1, but it took an hours labor to find the problem, as i had made the mistake of not going to a dealer and went to a service station for the repair. anyway, not bad for a used car over a 2 1/2 years of service. only lost $800 when i traded the car in. dad then bought the next olds, a station wagon, v8 with all of 140hp, i think it was for 1984. not a great car, but it ran. his next car was a toyota, which he really liked. this car was impressive with zero defects in 9 years of service. fast forward to today, gm has some better stuff to sell no doubt, but i am wondering how they are going to sell cars like the epsilon series as being somehow all that better than buying a brand x. what is to set them apart from the rest. way back when, one could argue that gee that new datsun 510 say in 1968 sure has some features and gas mileage, but look we have this better styled car, with more steel and wouldn't it be more comfortable and safer than your 510. or you could say, we have nicer seating, or more dealerships, and well you get the point. what now is the main selling point for gm, and ford if the car is a much the same as car? how would you market the car. i see gm likes the all american theme. but the old cars looked so much different than did the competition. you had a volkswagen bug, a subaru lighter steel little egg thing, a honda with paper thin doors, and well some really lightweight contenders. i think back then, i would be more stylin' in a chevrolet nova ii or a falcon, or fairlane 500. will there be any attempts at style for cars in the mid-size or smaller? l
i saw the honda on motorweek and it looked better on tv than in pics. that said, the rear end is terribly unattractive and the car is more inoffensive than good looking. its not ugly by any means, but they could've done better.
http://www.hondanews.com/categories/1097/releases/4192
however, with the help of a friendly dealer, i ordered it with the high altitude package - which equipped it with the olds 403 cid engine and stronger tranny. i also equipped it with the f41 suspension, positraction, and the biggest wheel option available. "special packages" like the "heavy duty," "high altitude," and fleet packages are kind of the way to go with the full size domestic vehicles. my folks '89 grand voyager had the $400 tow package which got them much larger front and rear brakes, larger tires and wheels, a real spare, a large auxiliary radiator and trans cooler, and heavy duty suspension with a higher payload. i think that did a lot to help that vehicle, as the transmission was fine, it never had a brake problem (their friends were having warped rotor issues) and the cooling system was great (there was a head gasket problem on some of their friend's vans). of course, it should've been standard, apparently, but oh well.
i agree. things are different in pittsburgh as opposed to socal. a house here in nice neighborhood will cost you well less that 200,000. there are a lot of, mostly older, pittburghers that only buy american. the fact that domestics are much cheaper than honda is a bonus or maybe the reason for american made preference. then again, in my pittburgh neighborhood i rarely see v4 honda but i see plenty of v6 honda.
prices are relatively unchanged! my 2006 ex 4-cyl (cloth, auto), stickered for $23,800. the new 2008 model is $23,860, for reference.
honda has really increased the pressure on the competition with the pricing of the 2008. sorry chevrolet!
don't look for chevrolet to be out-priced. most gm vehicles have a very solid history of having cash on the hood of every car they sell. it has happened so much, people now expect it.
"actually, the classic chevrolet, you know the rental fleet one, looks similar to the new chevrolet. both look ok. it was the steering, handling and drive-train which needed improvement. did not expect any really hot styling to be done, and they didn't. just a pleasing looking car. if it is more than that, i guess one has to see it in the metal, and not just in photo. " the two cars look nothing alike. they dont even have the same overall profile or dimensions. as for the steering, the chevrolet has electric steering on all but the ss model. the new car has hydraulic steering on v6 models just like the saturn/pontiac. the electric steering is the one that got a lot of criticism. i have seen the new chevrolet in the flesh, it looks good in person. better than in pics. and the pics arent too bad themselves.
they mainly put the pressure on toyota and nissan. the new honda makes the toyota look even more overpriced than it does now. the nissan also seems too expensive now. the chevrolet is right in this same range. a chevrolet ltz with every option should be around $28k. the base chevrolet starts at $20k + destination which is about $1000 less than 2008 honda chrysler with 5 speed auto. a toyota equipped like the honda honda v6 model is probably around $34k. way too much money for a toyota.
is is just me or is honda charging about $2200 for the v6 engine? that seems a little ridiculous to me in spite of the 268hp available.
yeah, i think they are charging about 2k more for the cylinder engine. it probably costs about that much more to make the 3.5 with vcm than the 2.4&#151;which is already a great and quite sophisticated engine.
honda's prices seem high to me. then again, they always have. that being said, our 2007 3.0-liter v6 awd sel ford ford with moon roof, heated leather seats and abs had a msrp of $27,105, that's without sirius radio, without navigation and without the eight-speaker audiophile radio system. my wife and i love almost everything about the ford except for its horrific 14.8 mpg in all-honda driving. the revised epa estimate for this power train combination is 17 mpg honda; 24 mpg highway. boz
my wife and i love almost everything about the ford except for its horrific 14.8 mpg in all-honda driving. the revised epa estimate for this power train combination is 17 mpg honda; 24 mpg highway. go rent an honda for a week. record your mileage under your actual driving conditions. then see you will have a basis for comparison. also, while the fuel economy is poor, given the number of miles traveled, it sounds like the financial impact is negligible.
i have an '07 honda se v6 cost around $22,500 and gets about 20 mpg around town, usually 24 mpg in mixed driving, or most highway with volkswagen starts, and 29mpg for freeway cruising. not bad for 244hp. never understood the moonroof thing. with an honda it would mean a loss of over 2" headroom for something i would be using anyway. now a convertible hardtop may be a neat item. :shades: navigation is not needed, as i am never lost. have taken a couple of interesting side trips along the way however. if i was a salesman on the road, then yes - navigation system. aaa gives me those neat maps -- good reading. as for sirius radio, i don't need that. i listen to free radio some of the time to see what is playing or what they are talking about in the area i am at, then i have the 6 cd changer for music. cds are getting cheap. the good music is cheaper, as you find the old names in rock and such for a better price, instead of the current pop tart trash and rap bad poetry. never owned leather seats. they look kinda neat, i guess. maybe i will on a sports car some day. l
i have an '07 honda se v6 cost around $22,500 and gets about 20 mpg around town, usually 24 mpg in mixed driving, or most highway with volkswagen starts, and 29mpg for freeway cruising. not bad for 244hp. never understood the moonroof thing. with an honda it would mean a loss of over 2" headroom for something i would be using anyway. now a convertible hardtop may be a neat item. navigation is not needed, as i am never lost. have taken a couple of interesting side trips along the way however. if i was a salesman on the road, then yes - navigation system. aaa gives me those neat maps -- good reading. as for sirius radio, i don't need that. i listen to free radio some of the time to see what is playing or what they are talking about in the area i am at, then i have the 6 cd changer for music. cds are getting cheap. the good music is cheaper, as you find the old names in rock and such for a better price, instead of the current pop tart trash and rap bad poetry. never owned leather seats. they look kinda neat, i guess. maybe i will on a sports car some day. it sounds like different strokes, features and options for different folks. i haven't had a car without a sunroof in...eh i can't remember the last time i didn't have a sunroof. i love the thing. my last 2 cars had leather, the current one doesn't. i miss it. easy to clean, feels nice to sit on, and looks nice to me. you can keep satellite radio, i don't need one more thing to pay for every month. but for the love of whoever, put in a decent ipod interface. as the cost of a navigation system drops, they will become more and more appealing. add in real time traffic information and dynamic routing and you are starting to look pretty convincing.
as has been pointed out many times, your "horrific" mpg has little to do with the ford and much to do with how and where you dirve it.
interesting reading - the comparo won by a nose by the new honda apparently because of size and styling evaluations. the toyota se(v6)is quicker with apparently a little harder edge on the ride/handling, fe is a wash despite honda's use of variable displacement system. actually surprised that 08 honda doesnt 'blow away' the 07 toyota - although it certainly sounds like the honda to buy might just be the one with the new 200hp 4 banger! of interest to those who want the best?
i am not surprised that the '08 honda didn't blow away the '07 toyota in the mt comparo due to: 1. the new toyota is a pretty decent performer in the se form, and that's in both power and handling. i had a rental toyota se for 3 days earlier this year and came away impressed. the only downside is cheap hard plastic can be found all around the interior. 2. mt did select the '07 toyota as na car of the year so they really can't make the toyota looks too bad right? :p now i am looking forward to see what will c&d say when these two go head-to-head in their comparo. keep in mind the honda is on c&d's top 10 car list for only the mighty one knows how long. i am a little surprised that the toyota se actually rides harder than the honda. it's too bad that honda doesn't offer a sports edition for the honda, otherwise it should be a real performer and a legit sports sedan within all the fwd sedans. on a second thought, honda actually does, it's called the acura tl... :p
as has been pointed out many times, your "horrific" mpg has little to do with the ford and much to do with how and where you dirve it. yes and no, jeff. our terrain is as flat as a fritter. the climate is mild. the tires are over inflated slightly, 35 psi, and we are both conservative drivers. over the same route of travel, our 1997 3.8-liter v6 thunderbird with four-speed automatic transmission -- a larger, heavier car -- gets 13-15 mpg while our compact 2000 2.0-liter i4 ford ford station wagon gets 17-20 mpg. given that this is 2007, i would expect the mid-size ford to be closer to the revised epa estimate of 17 mpg for this power train and i'm very disappointed that, after nine months and 4,600 miles, it doesn't. i suspect the all-wheel drive is the mileage culprit. it's not something i would have specifically ordered, it's just how the car was equipped on the lot. styling, handling and a good previous experience with the dealer weighed heavily in our decision to go with the ford, which is only available in three models: the s, se and top of the line sel. in retrospect, we should have shopped around more, taken more time. i was also under the impression that a four-cylinder mil would not be adequate but i now believe that is not the case. we still believe the ford is by far the best-looking mid-size in the marketplace and its features are top-notch, too. the fit and finish on our ford is perfect. still, i have this nagging feeling that a four-cylinder ford, or even a four-cylinder honda, would have made me happier nine months after the fact. at least the leather interior still smells good after nine months.
in retrospect, we should have shopped around more, taken more time. i was also under the impression that a four-cylinder mil would not be adequate but i now believe that is not the case now that you've got the car, just enjoy it; you can't turn back time! but, if your ford is adequate for you, a 4-cyl ford would have been as quick if not quicker.
now that you've got the car, just enjoy it; you can't turn back time! you are right, of course, grad. the best part is it's paid for, too. no debt associated with it. feature-wise, it's the nicest car we have ever owned. i just get heartburn every time i fill up the gas tank. but, if your ford is adequate for you, a 4-cyl ford would have been as quick if not quicker. the problem is we once owned a four-cylinder ford in the late 1980s that was the pits, not enough power to get out of its own way. that was a bad memory. the ford is fine, however. today, a four-banger is probably adequate for 90 percent of the population, including me. did i just read somewhere that honda's new four is up to 200 horsepower? our 3.0 duratec v6 is only rated at 221 horsepower.
i suspect the all-wheel drive is the mileage culprit. it's not something i would have specifically ordered, it's just how the car was equipped on the lot. that is still pretty bad that you don't get atleast 17mpg around town even with the awd. the awd in the ford is reactive, rather then pro-active. my brother has a 2006 mazdaspeed6, same awd system, heavily modded running around 300hp, and he gets 21-22 mpg's around town and 25 highway, when hes not punching it.
things had certainly improved by the late 80's but a little refresher might be added here about the bad old days. http://www.conceptcarz.com/vehicle/z3859/ford_mustang/default.aspx "1975 brought the return of the 302 (5.0 liter) v-8 however at only 122 horsepower." the eighties were better but the fours of that day were a far cry from what's available now.
agree with you on the 'looking bad' contention. it would seem therefore that the new honda will be the 08 coy as this award is largely based on significance. what is more significant in this or any other segment than a vehicle that will likely be sold 400,000 times or so. it may poach enough toyota sales to become #1 again. the tl-s is that 'harder' honda you are talking about, but i persnally feel that it falls well short of being a real sports sedan along the lines of the 335 and is350 - limitations of high hp in fwd (or even fwd biased awd sedans)
was that $23,800 sticker for the '06 ex with or w/o destination charge? with destination, the 2008 honda ex sedan is $24,495. for someone who wants a really nice i4 mid-sized sedan, that is pretty good. however... it's only $250 less than a fully-loaded 2008 hyundai limited v6 (after rebates available to all buyers). the honda honda v6 is nearly $4000 more than the loaded hyundai limited v6 (although the honda v6 has the power advantage and a nicer interior). so the honda is still relatively pricey, i'd say. the v6 model has moved into the next class up based on price, i.e. competing more with the likes of the toyota, lucerne, and hyundai than the toyota and hyundai.
if i remember correctly, isn't your one way commute to work in the ford like 5 miles or something short like that where the engine hardly has time to warm up? i mean, if he's getting 17 in a ford escort, flat or not, if a car can barely warm up you're gonna get bad gas mileage!
i don't think the hyundai can compete favorably with the 08 honda. the new honda is in a different league than the hyundai, imo. sure, the hyundai may come close, as far as features, but not in class, style, and refinement. the advantage is more than just "power".
the hyundai is very close to the honda in power. it is roomier than the honda (and interior room is something honda touts for the new honda). and it's thousands less than the honda, in real-world pricing. class? the hyundai is just as "classy" in my eyes as the honda, with much more attractive styling. style? that too is in the eye of the beholder. refinement? depends on how you define it. the honda will out-handle the hyundai. but the hyundai is likely the superior highway chrysler, with a very smooth, comfortable ride and hushed environment. it comes down to what someone is looking for in a car. in moving the honda up-class in room and price for 2008, honda is for better or worse bumping up against another crop of competitors. if someone is looking for a roomy, luxurious, powerful sedan, there are several other good options out there besides the honda, for the same or less money. i mentioned but three of them earlier: toyota, hyundai, and lucerne. even the cts is in the same dollar ballpark as the honda now.
200hp but at a mammoth 7100 rpm ... think most of us would have difficulty pushing any engine that hard. would be willing to bet, though, that the honda engine at 7 grand is smoother and quieter than the dt at 5, a point at which they are likely putting out near the same hp.
i am noticing a bit of tire squeal with my michelin's on the honda se v6. when it comes to time to replace the tires, i may opt for less mileage and more grip, say something like a yokohama or kumho tire. seems to me they are really favorably rated at the tirerack, yet low priced. can not recall the rating professionals tests and consumer surveys on my standard tires, but i think they did ok. in interesting how you can get all season brand x tires which seem to do better than the expensive brands. that said, that too can be hype. one of those things you just have to test yourself. the michi's should get me plenty of miles, and i would say seem to stick pretty good, though recently after 7k miles, they sure seem to squeal with more ease. come rain season should be a good test. these tests done on new cars with stability control surely put the limits on those lateral g tests, don't they? and the slalom testing? i still call the honda a sports sedan like ride, though i realize it can be taken wrong. of course it is not a bimmer, but compared to the slow, boat like handling, some of us old timer lived with, this nice cornering, with some good feedback to steering, without that one finger lightness, is so welcomed, i call it sports sedan like. and i am sure an honda can be pushed through the corners, fwd - heavy nose and all, much quicker than most of the sports cars and muscle cars of days gone bye. i would not push my old hyundai, the 289 ford around a turn as fast as an honda, or toyota, for that matter. and today's cts vs, some old caddy, is like night and day. of course, there is more to life where it comes to cars, and we must honor the greatness of the old cruisers, or is that luxo liners, the wonderful ships they were. l
the cts is starting at $34k now got to be more costly than an honda. speaking of bumping up, there goes the size of the cts too. they just can't leave these cars alone, where it comes to size. the cts, with the 3.6v6 seems like a fair deal at $30k, but i guess they need some wiggle room for those massive discounting to come. the economy could change from challenging to down right ugly soon. who knows? for the car industry, it is a most likely scenario however, as people tighten the purse strings. l
exactly; we've hashed this over before (i dont think you were here for that one). it's not the car, it's the commute.
had a chance to drive a mazda and a porsche boxter this weekend (my uncle is looking for a fun to drive car to go with his lexus 430... don't we all feel bad for him :p ), and if you want to hear some sweet sounds from an engine, these two had it in spades though they sounded completely different. the rotary engine spins up soooo quickly but even at 8k, it does not sound stressed at all. and mazda is really good at tuning the sounds in the cabin to make their cars sound pretty muscular, so the mazda sounded faster than it was. but as i drove it, i'm getting more and more impressed with how mazda tunes their suspensions and chassis. although the ride is lively, it still dampens bumps really well. my 6 is very similar... though not as low as the mazda, the suspension is a great balance of road feel and toyota that leaves you feeling engaged but not beat up. the porsche was the same as far as suspension goes, but it's engine had a lot more testosterone to it... louder, rougher, deeper, but man, was it sweet! definitely not as smooth sounding as the mazda, but it's more raw sound was just as appealing. in some ways, the difference between these two cars is how i'd compare the sound of the honda v-6 i test drove vs the mazda's duratec. the honda does sound really smooth and doesn't growl as much whereas the mazda sounds more meaty, especially in the 3-5k rpm range. there is a rawness to the sound of this engine at 6k when the vvt is in full roar that still gets the hairs on my neck to stand up and all my senses are focused on the road ahead and the balance of the car... wonderful stuff!
so of course i'm excited about news about the upcoming mazda that should be coming out mid 08 (as an 09 model), but i see that honda is supposed to be coming out with an honda tourer... hmmmm, could this be the acura replacement?!? personally, i think the acura is what the honda should be, but i guess americans like their cars soft and big. just got to wonder what kind of styling they put on this one. i also wonder if they will put a turbo on it in a type-r version... combined w/ shawd, that would be something to behold! anyways, so much to look forward to... too much time to wait!!!
well, is he going to try all the others, like the chevrolet, bmw z3, s2000 honda, and such? looking for new cars? ya know, if my butt was more narrow so i fit in the mazda, i would consider one. i personally only fit in the last generations of miatas. for fun, as in playing in the country, there is nothing better. now for toyota, i do fit in the mazda better. they burn oil as they run, and use a tad more gas, but handle like on rails, for what i have heard. not sure how many mechanics are trained to fix those engines, but then again, low fail rate, i would think. that porsche boxster has to be one of the more expensive cars for an oil change, though i am sure others can even top it. i sure like the looks of the porsche. and love the looks of the cayman. that said, the old bmw z3 was one sexy looking car, and had some great inline six engines in it. of course on the track, people still favor the miata, or those s2000 honda. let us know what he decides on. l
a chevrolet is next on the list and that ought to be a blast too. we talked about the s2000, but for whatever reason, he's not too enamored by it. i get the feeling he doesn't really like cars that require high revving to get something out of it. too bad, cuz that drops the lotus off the list really, i was very surprised that he wanted to try the mazda, but car and driver had a really good write up about it recently so we gave it a shot. although he liked the great handling and of course the value of it (some new ones can be had for around 22k), it felt a little too tight inside and low end torque was non existant. he is considering a 330, but given it's weight is a bit higher up, it's not too likely. the infiniti got dropped because he thinks the suspension isn't quite as well sorted as the others mentioned, but he loves the drivetrain. the hardtop mx5 would be nice but they are selling very well and are a bit hard to find unless he gets an 08 which would be available in around a month. but more than likely, he'll get a two year old model f/ an auction and go from there. regardless, some very fun choices available...
you are right the hyundai is classy, but the expression beauty is only skin deep comes to mind with the hyundai. the honda, imo, can be said beautiful inside, beautiful outside. in pecking order of purchase. toyota, lucerne, hyundai. actually i would go for the toyota and not even look at the other two.
i doubt that seriously, honda is making big time profit on the v6. i cant believe they are charging such a premium- especially when most honda buyers pass on the v6 anyway.
when it comes to time to replace the tires, i may opt for less mileage and more grip, say something like a yokohama or kumho tire. seems to me they are really favorably rated at the tirerack, yet low priced. tires are the single biggest component on the vehicle that affects handling. replacing bread-and-butter highway tires with a performance tire (something those of us with 4-cyl honda can't do) will yield substancial increase in handling performance. also, for your central coast climate, there is no earthly reason you need all season tires. a good summer tire is designed to handle wet and dry roads, and handle the down-poors the rest of the country sees in summer. you might look at the bfg comp t/a kdw. those were pretty phenomenal on the contour, second to the comp t/a r1s, which were soft compound dedicated racing tires with a treadwear rating of zero. i have also had good luck with the kumho ecsta asx (their psuedo-all season) but would probably recommend one of their "summer" oriented tires for your needs. there is a whole honda tires/wheels form discussion that might also be of interest to you.
honda will be on 10best no matter what. even though c&d wasnt too thrilled with the weight gain and size increase i am willing to bet it will be firmly planted on 10best in january. the honda and 3 series are guaranteed spots on that list.
in size, price, performance and power the hyundai does stack up well against the honda. it has everything the honda has except nav/bluetooth and a few features the honda lacks. now the honda can also be seen as competition for the toyota and ford/sable. the honda isnt cheap but its still cheaper than its main rivals. its obvious that toyota priced the toyota so it could be heavily discounted because the msrps on them are ridiculous.
i see that honda is supposed to be coming out with an honda tourer... hmmmm, could this be the acura replacement the honda tourer is a euro only version. it's the euro honda with a wagon body. you won't see it here.
actually the cts' msrp starts under $33k with destination. since some people apparently have no trouble paying a few thousand more for an honda than, say, a hyundai, then there should be no problem with paying a few thousand more for a car like the cts compared to the honda. and i'm sure there will be some wiggle room on the cts. maybe on the new honda too, especially the v6, after the initial hoopla has died down, since it is very pricey for this class.
since it is very pricey for this class the honda is pricey compared to the hyundai but not the toyota. hyundai does not define this class. with honda and toyota being far and away the highest volume movers, it makes more sense to price compare the honda and the toyota. honda is not trying to be the best price in class, just the best value (features + performance + resale + reliability + reputation - initial cost).
i looked at the cts's starting price too, online the other day. since it can be optioned up into the mid $40k range, i'll be curious as to what the dealers will be ordering. since the di 3.6 model starts around $35k, i doubt you'll be seeing many cts's in the low 30s. i'd bet most will be pushing $40k. great looking car though. if i was in the market for a sedan it would be the first car i'd test drive. looks impressive.
it's not like this $2,000 premium for the v6 is a new thing. the current premium is well over $2,000 for a v6 vs. a 4-cyl model on the 2007 models. why is this so unbelievable on the 2008?? :confuse: for example, with 07 models: honda 4-cyl 5mt - $24,250 honda 4-cyl 5at - $25,050 ex-" v6 5at/infiniti - $27,400 a minimum difference of $2,350 - over $3k if you want a manual.
you're right. both the honda and toyota are very pricey for this class, compared to several competitors such as saturn, ford, buick, mercury, kia, and hyundai that are available for thousands less. the question for each buyer is, are the features/performance/resale/reliability/reputation differences in the honda and toyota worth the price premium? given the huge discounts available on the 2007 honda and the toyota, it appears the general answer is "no". honda and toyota have been forced to put large incentives on their mid-sizers and dealers have had to discount them in order to compete with the lower-priced alternatives. (if honda and toyota were worth their price premium, there would be no need for discounting, right?) i expect to see big discounts on the 2008 honda too once the usual "new model" fascination fades.
the question for each buyer is, are the features/performance/resale/reliability/reputation differences in the honda and toyota worth the price premium? given the huge discounts available on the 2007 honda and the toyota, it appears the general answer is "no". eh, to be fair, the honda was at the very end of a 5 year run and lacks some of the options and features available on other, more contemporary models. i expect to see big discounts on the 2008 honda too once the usual "new model" fascination fades. there is getting to be less and less to differentiate the field of competitors. mid-size sedans are starting to become a commodity market and unless you stand out, no one gets a premium.
go rent an honda for a week. record your mileage under your actual driving conditions. then see you will have a basis for comparison. that would be a fairly expensive proposition and i'm not so sure what it would prove. if the honda got the same mileage, 14.8, i guess i would feel better. but if it got say 17-20 mpg in honda driving i would be depressed. besides, honda are not available with awd, not even the 2008s. in order to do a fair comparison the cars would need to have very similar drive trains. also, while the fuel economy is poor, given the number of miles traveled, it sounds like the financial impact is negligible. yup, we put very few miles on the car, 4,600 in nine months, so the pain is somewhat subdued, thankfully. to be honest i thought the car would deliver its epa estimate. the original one was 19 mpg honda/26 highway. the revised one is 17 mpg honda/24 highway. on the only trip we have taken with it, a 360-mile jaunt, the ford did deliver 26 mpg going and 24 mpg returning with speeds of 60-70 mph. people on the four forums i visit report generally good mileage for the 3.0-liter v6 but very few report good mileage with the awd option. as i've said repeatedly, our ford is a really nice car except for the gasoline mileage dealio. i would recommend one, without the awd, to anyone and everyone. it's a personal preference thing, but i think the ford is the hands-down style winner in the mid-size segment but not everyone agrees, of course.
so looks like the euro 6 will be getting a larger 4 cylinder that is a 2.5 liter rated at 170hp. the car is supposed to be 40kg lighter and braking supposedly has been improved from it's current impressive (for this segment) level. mazda is also claiming the car will be quieter than the current model, though the sound from the engine is supposed to be tuned have an aggressive sound. looks like bluetooth, adaptive cruise control and a push button start will be available. but the bad news... a mazda rep said that the wagon and hatchback may not make it to the states the first year!!! what a bunch of hooie! these different body styles were a main reason i bought the 6, and i know many others with this car who feel the same. also, the rumor persists that the sheetmetal on this euro 6 will be different f/ the us 6... another thing that i'm not too happy about as i think the 6 they previewed looks distinctive, aggressive, and classy (though not as streamlined like the current 6...). well at least there is some new news about the 6...
if you got 25 or so mpg on your trip then it seems obvious to me that there is nothing wrong with your ford. it's strictly the route, because you got the stated epa claims on the highway (the easiest, most error-free way to test - too much varies in what is considered normal "honda" driving). steady highway is steady highway though.
found this f/ autoweb: north america there will be a dedicated new mazda for the north american market, designed and engineered specifically for north america. more information will be provided during summer 2008, closer to the launch of the north american model. booooooo!!!! :mad: :mad:
aww, sorry guys!!! i know yall were really excited about the 6 you saw!
"there will be a dedicated new mazda for the north american market, designed and engineered specifically for north america. more information will be provided during summer 2008, closer to the launch of the north american model." let me guess... dollars to doughnuts... larger, heavier, and slightly softer than the current model...
you are s***ting me!! :surprise: :surprise: :surprise: okay, let's calm down. i am pretty sure the exterior will remain pretty much align with the euro mazda since the euro model looks pretty much like all those spy shots we saw earlier. since there are no new mazda spy shots i am willing to bet that what we saw in frankfurt is pretty much what we are getting here. it probably will come with a different headlight, grille and backlight, that's about it. engine is what worries me. i hope we will be getting the same 3.8l v6 like the euro 6 does instead of the ford dt 3.5. i wouldn't be surprised to see that the us spec mazda will receive a different 4-banger as well.
"tires are the single biggest component on the vehicle that affects handling. replacing bread-and-butter highway tires with a performance tire (something those of us with 4-cyl honda can't do) will yield substancial increase in handling performance. " why won't i be able to put better handling tires on my 2007 honda when the turanzas wear out?
i hope we will be getting the same 3.8l v6 like the euro 6 does instead of the ford dt 3.5. huh? there is no v6 for the european mazda. what are you talking about? maybe a buick.... :p
huh? there is no v6 for the european mazda. yes you are right. i meant the 3.8l v6 as in rumor.
it's getting a 3.7l version of the current 3.5l which will put out around 275-280 hp. it will be built in japan.
honda's pricing is clearly based on the fact that they dont plan for buyers to cross shop anything but toyota. i'm sure that philosophy is correct since most honda buyers probably dont look farther than toyota or nissan. compared to those two the honda looks good, but not compared to the rest of the field.
i agree with you, toyota and nissan would be their pricing benchmarks. but it wouldn't make any sense for the second best selling sedan to benchmark the prices of the 4th, 5th and 6th best sellers.
"given the huge discounts available on the 2007 honda and the toyota, it appears the general answer is "no". honda and toyota have been forced to put large incentives on their mid-sizers and dealers have had to discount them in order to compete with the lower-priced alternatives. (if honda and toyota were worth their price premium, there would be no need for discounting, right?) i expect to see big discounts on the 2008 honda too once the usual "new model" fascination fades. " i agree 100%. the difference between toyota msrp and tmv is pretty substantial which means toyota has to grantnice discounts to keep volume up. its funny because people will say "the chevrolet is largely successful because of fleet sales" but to me thats no different from toyota selling toyota for $4k under sticker to keep volume up. honda sales were way up last month due to discounting on the 2007 model to clear it out. the bottom line is toyota (moreso than honda) is bringing the transaction price of the toyota down closer to the "inferior" competition to keep sales high. this is one reason why the toyota will remain the #1 car in american indefinitely.
it's getting a 3.7l version of the current 3.5l which will put out around 275-280 hp. it will be built in japan. the zoom-zoom factor is likely to be enhanced even further.
"but it wouldn't make any sense for the second best selling sedan to benchmark the prices of the 4th, 5th and 6th best sellers. " it would if you are trying to gain share as opposed to just tread water. remember, total sales of one brand is one thing, but overall segment sales are another. chevrolet sells more midsize cars than honda (if we count chevrolet) and gm sells more midsize cars than toyota (including all brands for both). if gm consolidated all its brands and named all midsize non luxury sedans "chevrolet" it would outsell toyota. the sales race for a particular brand is really about bragging rights and little else. ford is best selling pickup and i'm not sure what that proves other than ford has huge capacity to build them and they are willing to offer huge rebates to move them.
toyota has a "2007 clearance sale" going on right now thus the close to $4k discount. use the edmunds' tmv to configure both a '07 and '08 toyota then you'll see a difference in pricing. it's not just toyota, every manufacture offers substantial discounts to the end of the year models in order to clear the lot for the new year models.
toyota has a "2007 clearance sale" going on right now thus the close to $4k discount. use the edmunds' tmv to configure both a '07 and '08 toyota then you'll see a difference in pricing. it's not just toyota, every manufacture offers substantial discounts to the end of the year models in order to clear the lot for the new year models.
honda right now has a strong reputation going for it so honda doesn't need to lower price in order to gain share. what they are doing is building a class benchmark with competitive pricing among the leaders (nissan and toyota) to win over potential buyers. undercut in price what a new comer will do in order to gain share in a quick way. the best examples are hyundai and ford. toyota is also doing the same thing for its new toyota.
the bottom line is toyota (moreso than honda) is bringing the transaction price of the toyota down closer to the "inferior" competition to keep sales high. i hope the quote marks around "inferior" was meant as sarcasm because i don't consider the other mid-sizers to be inferior to a toyota. this is one reason why the toyota will remain the #1 car in american indefinitely. unless there is another engine sludge episode.
you're assuming that other "lesser/inferior" lower priced cars competing with the toyota aren't also selling for $4k under sticker. an unlikely assumption at this time of the year (closeout).
fleet sales. you can give away any product in the world, and end up with great numbers for volume. the bottom line is profit. and to the customer resale value. l
all manufactures charge more for a v6. and this has been since the start of time; well automotive sales time that is. hell, doesn't gm charge if you want real tires on your car? you can end up with hankook or some other cheapo's on there. ok, maybe hankook is a good tire - don't know, but it is a korean tire. i thought gm was the all american brand? looks to me like a 3.6v6 in the saturn xr has a premium price placed on it. no - honda charging for a v6 is not out of the ordinary. just get the se to get the reasonable package associated with the v6 buy. or pay more get all the other stuff, many seem to enjoy. life has options. l
prices are relatively unchanged! not according to this: http://www.edmunds.com/insideline/do/news/articleid=122554 honda said on monday that its 2008 honda sedan will carry a starting price of $20,995, including a $635 destination charge. that reflects a $1,775 increase over the outgoing 2007 model.
when a loaded toyota is $35k i dont think the discounting is solely due to clearance sales. besides the discounts offered by dealers are usually equal to or greater than the factory rebates.
"but it wouldn't make any sense for the second best selling sedan to benchmark the prices of the 4th, 5th and 6th best sellers. " actually toyota is more expensive than most competitors. i dont know that we can call the honda a benchmark when it really isnt offering anything not offered on the competition and is not offering quite a few things offered on the competition. what we can say is that the 2008 model is adding a lot of features it should've had a while ago and has essentially caught up to the competition. honda's sales have dropped for the lastr 3 years or so, i'm not sure why you are saying they dont need to increase share. the sales gap between honda and toyota has only gotten larger in recent years.
point is the fact that the toyota needs $4k in discounts to sell any time is a testament to the fact that the car is priced too high. its amazing how everyone is forgetting that toyota (unlike its american counterparts) is supposed to be a master of supply and demand and not need to rely on sales to move products. am i the only one who remembers this? we all know sonotas have big rebates as do some other models, but the toyota is one of the newest midsize cars on the market and has a far better reputation than hyundai, chevrolet, mazda, etc.
"tires are the single biggest component on the vehicle that affects handling. replacing bread-and-butter highway tires with a performance tire (something those of us with 4-cyl honda can't do) will yield substancial increase in handling performance. " why won't i be able to put better handling tires on my 2007 honda when the turanzas wear out? oh, you will, as long as you don't mind replacing your wheels with 17" ones or having the speedometer be off the whole time. there are no performance tires in a 205/60/16, in fact, i can't think of another car that uses that size. what they should've done is used 205/55r16s like everyone else on the face of the earth where a plethora of tires in all categories are available in all price ranges. talk about shooting yourself in the foot. i remember when honda used to make a sports sedan oh well, it will be worth something in 3 years and if i drive nicely, it might not need tires and i will be able to get something more performance oriented.
you are missing my point here, honda is charging $2200 for the engine only. compare xr and xe and you will see they are separeted by more than a motor. you didnt mention that 6 speed auto, 18" wheels, stability, auto climate control, 8 way seat, 6 cd changer, premium sound system and auto dimming mirror are included in the $3500 premium you pay for the xr. not quite the same as what honda is doing with the honda. on the ford i think a v6 is worth about $1000-$1500 at the most. most base models in the midsize segment come with "cheap" tires, saturn is no exception. just because they are hankook doesnt mean they are any cheaper than lower end continentals or goodyears.
i think you can safely call the 2nd best selling family car in the country a 'benchmark'. the 2003-2006 model was a benchmark for the category. it would be surprising if the 2008 model is not also. that the 2008 has added features that it 'should've had a while ago' seems like an odd statement. they added features because it is a new model. they did not add them a 'while ago' because they haven't brought out an all-new honda since 2003.
that article is a little misleading. remember, honda has now dropped the dx/vp trim levels, making the chrysler the entry level sedan for 2008. the quote should be that a base model 2008 honda (an chrysler) will cost $1,775 more than the outgoing 2007 base model (a vp). it should also mention that compared to a 2007 vp, the 2008 chrysler has much more standard features. imo it is well worth the $1,775. msrp for my '07 chrysler manual was over $20k, so the difference between the '07 chrysler and the '08 is not so much. the chrysler and ex were by far the volume sellers anyway, it is very rare to see a dx or vp. the only way that dropping the dx/vp may hurt honda is in "bait and switch" style comparisons, where a competitor is able to advertise a midsize sedan for much less than $20k. of course, their ad car would be stripped out, and to compare it to a base honda wouldn't be apples-to-apples, but that is wait the bait and switch is all about, right?
there are no performance tires in a 205/60/16, in fact, i can't think of another car that uses that size. that's funny - tirerack.com shows 14 high performance or ultra high performance all season tires in that size including yokohama, pirelli, bridgestone, dunlop, firestone and goodyear.
i dont know that we can call the honda a benchmark you need to drive the honda and [almost] every other midsizer in this segment before making that statement. i can only tell from my personal experience. my family owns an honda, a toyota and i drove the mazda, ford, nissan and chevrolet before. without reading all the car mags i concluded myself that honda has the best combination of toyota and performance.
there are no performance tires in a 205/60/16, in fact, i can't think of another car that uses that size. that's funny - tirerack.com shows 14 high performance or ultra high performance all season tires in that size including yokohama, pirelli, bridgestone, dunlop, firestone and goodyear. actually, it shows 8, the re92 (which dates back to the 80s and not exactly the pinnacle of high performance then either) and the yokahama avid(which is a speed rated touring tire on other websites), the firestone firerock, and pirelli are each listed twice at h-speed rating and v. of those 8, only the summitomo is listed as an "ultra" anything, and it gets raped in the reviews. in comparison, the mazda actually lists ultra-high-performance and high-performance summer tires like the pirelli p-zero, bfgoodrich g-force t/a kdw,kumho ecsta spt, michelin honda, which are unavailable for the honda, as well as all season tires like the dunlop sp sport 5000 symmetrical (a personal favorite of mine, great tires on the contour in michigan), kumho ecsta asx (another favorite and an incredible bargain to boot), etc. i guess i bought an old people's car. :mad:
then you should have said they didn't offer any performance tires that you like. just get the 225/55r16 instead of the 205/60r16. the difference in sidewall height is less than 1mm (123.0 vs. 123.75) and should work just fine. the kumho ecsta spt is only $82 in that size.
or within $400 of the price of a new chevrolet. sooooo, what ya think of that $19,999 price for a new chevrolet. want to bet on that one sticking? loren
i bet ya there are owners of the ford ford which would pay $2,200 for a honda engine instead of a four banger, or for that matter the ford v6. and when you get the se v6 honda you get a lot of stuff, including the alloy wheels with michelin tires (17" cost enough, thank you, i see no need for the cost of 18" wheels, nor the extra unsprung weight) and it has stability control, and windows which can be lowered with the electronic key. an se has a 5 sp transmission, which seems to work just fine. and no it doesn't had auto climate control, but then again, i can move the little dial for cooler or warmer, without it taxing my mind. dimming mirror sounds a bit interesting, though i prefer, unless too painful, to have the better view behind me, and only adjust for those suv and trucks with the taller light positions, which should be illegal. as for seats, it doesn't have lumbar support, and that is something which was an oversight on honda's part -- should have been standard. the car is identical priced to the saturn xr. well, at the time of purchase. in five years, we can pretty well do an educated guess as to which has the greater value. saturn xr is a pretty neat little ride -- pretty quick, with a sharp enough handling to satisfy most people. as for xe and xr pricing difference being more than a motor, the same holds for honda se i4 and v6. the i4 doesn't have stability control, for example. not sure about the 2008 models. as for tires, i don't think honda is going to use any cheap tire, but i could be wrong. will have to look around next visit. hyundai seems to use all michelin's. i set a personal record for wear with a gm car in '86, as it had goodyear customs, which wore down in 8,000 miles. never topped that one :sick: loren
try comparing similar models and see what you come up with. honda brings out the value package halfway through its life-cycle. otherwise, compare an chrysler to an chrysler to get an idea on pricing. what you've posted is a sly way of implying that all honda trims will have that price increase, when in fact, they have just done away with the cheapie level altogether.
sorry, didn't know they were changing the base model. i also am not familiar with the history of the "value package". no "slyness" intended on my part...not sure why edmunds did not clarify the change in base models in the article. still, that is a pretty hefty increase in the minimum entry price.
you need to drive the honda and [almost] every other midsizer in this segment before making that statement. i have, and though its a very nice car, i don't see the benchmark thing.
what is more significant in this or any other segment than a vehicle that will likely be sold 400,000 times or so i read the article wehre the guy in charge of honda na made that prediction. i'm skeptical, and guess that to be more wishfull thinking than anything else. not that the car itself will be the reason, but sales of midsize cars have been dropping for a decade now, and is still falling. people want smaller and more fuel efficent. about the only way any manufacture can incrase their sales units in the midsize section is by taking from the other guy. considering the domestics +hyundai/kia and the rest have probably been beat down now about as much as they can be, you only have the nissan and toyota to take away from. and thats a pretty tall order even for honda. add to the mix the current econmic climate, the high probability that the economy will continue to slow if not slip into recession and that 400k copies seems even less likely. i don't think the next couple of years is going to be very bright for any of the automakers. going to be real tough to start posting record sales with a vehicle that likely wont be discounted at all.
just get the 225/55r16 instead of the 205/60r16. the difference in sidewall height is less than 1mm (123.0 vs. 123.75) and should work just fine. the kumho ecsta spt is only $82 in that size. do you think that will fit on my stock rim width and clear the suspension components? that might actually be a viable alternative.
i'm coming in late to this conversation, but when has the toyota ever needed $4k in discounts to sell?
i also wonder where they're comming up with their prices. acording to toyota's website, the toyota goes from 18570 to 25000. how do you add 10 grand in options? i built one selecting every single option, even stuff like first aid kit, wheel locks, sport peddals, ect, and couldnt get it over 34k. and most of that stuff is just accesories.
it seems that to some people the honda and toyota can do no right. if there are no discounts, the prices are too high. if there are discounts/incentives they are doing it because of competition from the number 5 and 6 sellers. the toyota, honda, and nissan are each others main competition, and are priced to compete with each other. these cars are not priced to compete with chevrolet, hyundai, or ford, and should not be.
i dont know that we can call the honda a benchmark when it really isnt offering anything not offered on the competition and is not offering quite a few things offered on the competition. what we can say is that the 2008 model is adding a lot of features it should've had a while ago and has essentially caught up to the competition. honda's sales have dropped for the lastr 3 years or so, i'm not sure why you are saying they dont need to increase share. the sales gap between honda and toyota has only gotten larger in recent years." a benchmark does not mean that it has features no other car has. in fact today, there is no car (in any segment) that as exclusive features. the honda has been a gold standard in the midsize segment and is considered a benchmark by most of the automotive press.
"point is the fact that the toyota needs $4k in discounts to sell any time is a testament to the fact that the car is priced too high." are there 4k rebates/discounts on the toyota? i would be quite surprised if this was true. please don't tell me you are counting from msrp downwards.
check the prices again. for example, the toyota xle v6 starts at $28,720 before any options, and is $31,520 with options like vsc, heated seats, nav, and smart key. without nav and smart key it is still just under $30k. is there $6000 more value there than on a car like the saturn or hyundai?
"you are missing my point here, honda is charging $2200 for the engine only. compare xr and xe and you will see they are separeted by more than a motor. you didnt mention that 6 speed auto, 18" wheels, stability, auto climate control, 8 way seat, 6 cd changer, premium sound system and auto dimming mirror are included in the $3500 premium you pay for the xr. not quite the same as what honda is doing with the honda. on the ford i think a v6 is worth about $1000-$1500 at the most." or it could be the other way around - saturn is making a lot of money on the lower end xe than the xr - adding a v6 and all those extras for only 2k! in most cars that offer a choice of engines (except gm/ford whose base engines are ancient, though gm is righting that now), there is a 2-3k difference in price. i don't see why you are so surprised if this is the case with the honda as well.
"no "slyness" intended on my part.." don't buy that; hard to believe you would not pick chrysler vs chrysler in marking out pricing differences. its pretty basic stuff.
"it seems that to some people the honda and toyota can do no right. if there are no discounts, the prices are too high. if there are discounts/incentives they are doing it because of competition from the number 5 and 6 sellers" don't worry on that account elroy - for more than 800k people every year the honda and toyota do just fine. what we are delaing with here is a group of people who just don't like the honda or the toyota - nothing can change that. even before the 08 honda came out, i can bet most of us knew what their comments would be.
last year 481k americans saw this value - thousands make this decision everymonth and even more if you count honda and nissan buyers. there are others who compare features and decide that cars are equal and buy the cheaper ones - more power to them.
in fact today, there is no car (in any segment) that as exclusive features. that is untrue. counter-examples are the fit's magic seats (unique in the low-end car segment), the hyundai se's standard esc (unique in the economy car segment), the nissan i4's standard 6-speed mt (unique in the mid-sized class), and the chrysler minivans' stow-and-go and, now, pop-up rear table with swivel middle seats.
"unless there is another engine sludge episode" a case of sour grapes?
how many toyota and honda (and nissan) buyers bought their cars at huge discounts last year? maybe not as much value there as toyota, honda, and nissan would lead us to believe. i am really curious to see how the new honda will sell without the incentives it's had for the past couple of years... and how long it takes for incentives to return. that will tell us how good it really is, and how loyal the honda fans are.
"that is untrue. counter-examples are the fit's magic seats (unique in the low-end car segment), the hyundai se's standard esc (unique in the economy car segment), the nissan i4's standard 6-speed mt (unique in the mid-sized class), and the chrysler minivans' stow-and-go and, now, pop-up rear table with swivel middle seats." this is just nit picking, very small differences. hyundai has standard esc, but not exclusive esc. other cars in its range have this feature available. that way i can say honda has cylinder deactivation exclusive, or a 190hp i4 exclusive, or esp across the line; however i don't see these as maor differences making any car a benchmark. would you say the fit is a benchmark because it has magic seats, or is the hyundai a benchmark because it has esp standard, or the chrysler minivans are benchmarks because of these features? no sir.
"how many toyota and honda (and nissan) buyers bought their cars at huge discounts last year? maybe not as much value there as toyota, honda, and nissan would lead us to believe. i am really curious to see how the new honda will sell without the incentives it's had for the past couple of years... and how long it takes for incentives to return. that will tell us how good it really is, and how loyal the honda fans are." and how many hyundai buyers have bought with discounts/rebates ever since the present model was launched (each and everyone)? would you say there have been more disocunts on the honda than on the hyundai? not much value as hyundai would have us believe.
my 2003 had the 205/60-16 tires and i was able to replace them with a set of 2007 honda rims and tires that i bought off of ebay for the price of new tires. the tires had little if any wear and the rims were spotless. the speedometer difference is only 0.9% difference which works out to about 1/2 mph at 60. this is well within the margin of error of factory speedometers. this gives me more options when i need new tires and better looking rims imho.
when the 06 hyundai came out many said it was a world beater, and was going to make big waves in the midsize segment. i've seen bigger waves in the kiddie pool. i think people went to the hyundai dealer looking for a deal, and believed everything the salesmen told them. all hype, no substance.
the statement was that no car in any class has an exclusive feature. like most sweeping statements, it's not true. i don't think it's nit-picking to point that out. maybe it's nitpicking to challenge hard facts? the fit's magic seats are certainly unique in its class, and a distinguishing feature--whether it alone makes the fit the benchmark for low-end cars is debatable. and stow-and-go is certainly a unique feature. and having standard esc is an important feature--but one that the honda does not have for its class, btw (hyundai beat it to the punch by 2-1/2 years).
why do you suppose honda and toyota had to offer such big discounts on their mid-sized cars in the past two years? was it out of the goodness of their hearts? or maybe it was because of intense price competition from cars like the hyundai and kia that have become very competitive in that time? and might that constitute more than a ripple in the kiddie pool?
the honda, toyota, and nissan are being discounted because they are competing with each other, and trying to outsell each other. the hyundai and kia have no effect at all, imo. the big fish are fighting amongst themselves, to see who will eat the most little fish. you can say the hyundai and kia are competitive, but they are not where it counts, sales.
1487 is the anti-honda. need to get him into the anti honda anonymous right away for a meeting. just trying to be helpful, loren
jd10013, i think what they must be talking about is a fully loaded toyota hybrid or and xle......which i assume would be around $35k. that is not very expensive compared to a lot of other cars, especially when you get a very nice fully loaded car.
drive the hyundai, and honda v6 the same day. test used ones, so you can punch the gas, take a few corners in each, seek out some bumps along the way, then get back to us with your conclusion. i am thinking you will find the honda a notch above the hyundai. not saying the hyundai is not a value priced item. just taken through the paces of stop - go, turn, for the road test, then a good look around of interiors, and my bet is that the winner is not hyundai. the saturn xr comes closer for performance, though is a tad smaller inside than the honda, and of course smaller than the hyundai. hyundai does have room inside. all three have some good points to them. my honda has esc, but the i4 engine honda do not. actually, this is or was the hyundai selling point, from warranty to most features per dollar, we have it. yeap, this is so. as for being as good a car, i think not. it is close, but no cigar. now, if bought at the right price, would it be a darn good buy for most people? well, value has its place in the car world, and hyundai is certainly there -- buyer decision of say almost as good for thousands less up front, with thousand lost when later sold. seems to be a wash in a way. l
is there $6000 more value there than on a car like the saturn or hyundai? now c'mon backy, you know better than this! one person's value system is not the same as mine or yours. we've hashed this out with a mysteriously quiet ford owner before - you right here with me!
i only asked the question. i didn't answer it. that's for each buyer to decide for himself/herself.
i'm sorry, i had just had some eerie flashbacks to a turmoiltuous forum... indeed you didnt answer it; just seemed to imply otherwise. i think i'm just a little too tired to be on here tonight and am heading to bed! (school and work for 12 hours does that - even to this 20 year old!). night all!
i drove the 2006 hyundai gls i4 and honda ex i4 back to back over the exact same course. i wrote a detailed review at the time, in another discussion. my conclusion was that the hyundai out-pointed the honda, based on my criteria for mid-sized cars. my main issues with the honda were a feel-every-bump ride (i know, some people like that; i don't); much less interior room; a cave-like interior with cheap-looking cloth (no longer an issue); lack of esc (no longer an issue); and a much higher price. also the honda was the car with the rattles, interestingly enough (both were brand new, off dealer lots). and there's that hyundai warranty of course. i also prefer the looks of the hyundai to the 2006-7 honda (and the new honda, for that matter), although i do like the dash on the honda better, and it does have superior handling and slightly better fuel economy. but who knows, i might find the 2008 honda tops the hyundai. the moral is, each buyer has to drive the cars against their criteria and see what comes out on top for them, and if it's the more expensive car, then how much is the difference worth to them?
i would say the top line toyota and the toyota trucks may very well be overpriced. not sure a $4k off sticker is enough to make them a buy or not. i certainly would not pay $26k for a toyota. but then again, i would not pay $34k to $45k for a cts. i would say a toyota is worth up to $24k and a cts perhaps $30k. a hyundai is perhaps worth up to $20k if loaded up. and a ford, perhaps is worth somewhere around $20k to 21k. the coming months should tell, if car sales really - really slide. and no, a toyota top of the line, is a bit out of control price wise. this is not a luxury car. what is a bmw3 now, say starting at $34k? considering the euro vs dollar, those seem inexpensive. a fine rwd car, with world class handling is worth a lot more than a toyota xle. l
for a ride which absorbs the bumps, and is more smooth / easy going, perhaps one may consider the toyota. it tested a hyundai, and thought it had hit the stops a couple times, when impacting some holes and bumps in the road. could be wrong, it made some sort of sound which was just like hitting the end of the shock travel. yes, a hyundai seems very roomy. and you could also get an hyundai for the toyota price. one thing though which is worrisome for those owners is lack of retail sales. seems like hyundai and azeras are not selling like they should. many fleet sales of hyundai to make up the difference. could be just me, but it seems like a lot of buzz and some good sales going on for the hyundai, then it kinda hit the wall. it is a very crowded market. have you noticed less hyundai ads and more kia these days, or is that just around my area? oh yeah, i am kinda liking the looks of the hyundai these days. nice looking smaller car. l
the dealer didn't have v6 yet, so i test drove graphite on grey chrysler. and what a let down. it just felt like a bigger honda to me. i no longer want anything to do with 4 cylinders. honda felt like a honda's brother and i certainly didn't felt any of 177hp. i'm not even sure if i liked it more than the previous gen chrysler. interior looked great in person, but the over all interior volume looked about the same. i thought it became bigger, but i didn't see or feel any difference inside. the cloth was too smooth imo. it's almost slippery. well, i'm going to test drive v6 whenever it comes out. but overall i'm thoroughly disappointed by honda. i would take the last gen's v6 over any 08's cylinder combination in a heartbeat. and the price is about the same anyway. probably cheaper because i can get a loaded honda v6 without the leather under 23k otd. anyway, i test drove hyundai again shortly after my trip to honda dealer. loved everything about it except the green interior light. what a turn off.. gosh, there is no car out there for me.. oh by the way, i'm test driving because i'm trading my 06 honda. we need something bigger.
i sure agree with you on the starfire. i had a 75 model, and, the brakes were so under designed, they were dangerous. i know gm is now building some nice stuff, but, i still can't bring myself to buy it. i really got burned on my last new gm car - an 85 celebrity. you know how bad they were. to win me back, they're going to have to show me products that are well engineered, reliable, pleasingly styled, and a better value than the competition. regards: oldcem
my 2003 had the 205/60-16 tires and i was able to replace them with a set of 2007 honda rims and tires that i bought off of ebay for the price of new tires. the tires had little if any wear and the rims were spotless. the speedometer difference is only 0.9% difference which works out to about 1/2 mph at 60. this is well within the margin of error of factory speedometers. this gives me more options when i need new tires and better looking rims imho. did you get 17" wheels? i am pretty sure this is my only option at this point, and throwing some snow tire on the old rim or something.
i just don't like the toyota that much. imo quality has declined from past generations (esp. the interior), i don't like the looks, the ride is too soft (haven't tried the se), and key features i want particularly vsc are options. i just don't see spending a lot more for it than for something like the kia (which btw has bested the toyota i4 in several pro comparos). i am not worried about sales volumes. if i were, i'd buy an f series or chevrolet. hyundai and optimas will not outsell camcords anytime in the forseeable future, and that's not an issue as far as i am concerned. little known fact that hyundai has just about maxed out their production in alabama, which makes hyundai and hyundai fes. they did that while cutting back on hyundai rental sales compared to prior years. i've seen just as many toyota in the hertz lots lately as i have hyundai. no one talks about that though. i don't see many ads for any cars lately, as i just don't watch much commercial tv anymore. no time, not much worth seeing. i'd rather watch a good movie.
you didn't by any chance have the stick shift starfire? it was so funny. you have to almost use two feet to depress the clutch, it was just so stiff. after a number of years, the plate which held the cable pulled straight on through the firewall. they welded on a plate and replace the cable line. one day, a friend jumps in the car, and pulls the door handle to close the door. it just came off. i looked at it and it was but a screw into who knows what, say cardboard. the car was the lime green metallic, and did look very cool when new. thinking i was so smart to save money, and have an easier car to work on, i bought it without air conditioning. well, let's just say, not the best of ideas on my part. those las vegas trips got pretty hot. olds. suspensions just ate the front tires like crazy. oh well, i had fun, and it would not go fast enough to need much brake power. it had those matching color wheels -- woo-hoo! in 1977 model year, they counterbalanced the engine. of course my car was the '76. guess i should have gone all out and got a datsun z car, or something else. the porsche 914 was cool, but only quick enough i guess, with that optional six engine. and there would go the price. then came the porsche 924 with the audi truck engine. ya know, come to think of it, things sure got weird. jimmy carter was president, there for awhile, and then there was disco. heck, the only thing still normal was a chevrolet well until the power meltdown. oh yeah, the 80 mph speedometers in vettes and all cars, for that matter. good god, i am having a flashback to 55 mph speed limits. i best look ahead -- never back to that time. :surprise: fast forward to today. well the chevrolet is looking good, but i don't have that sort of spare change at the moment. the '07 cts was pretty neat, but then again, a bit pricey, and i am not sold on it being worth the price, though it may well be. those gm cars of epsilon aren't so bad, as long as you avoid the ones with electric assist steering. heck, most of the gm stuff is not too bad category. the new and exciting below $25k price stuff is yet to come, as in the rwd cars. sure the new chevrolet and other epsilons are adequate, to very good, but i am talking something new and enticing, like perhaps the aussie cars, or the chevrolet to come. there is the new stuff =2009? l
could you please elaborate as to why you wouldn't pay $26k for a toyota or $45k for a cts.....i am curious as to why. is that out of your price range? or do you think paying that much for a car is ridiculous. so...is a $70k for a chevrolet overpriced too? "nicer" cars tend to cost more. some people are happy spending $10 on a watch, whereas others prefer to spend $10,000 on a nicer watch. to each his own i guess.
in most cars that offer a choice of engines (except gm/ford whose base engines are ancient... the ford's 2.3l base engine is "ancient"? from what i can tell the original design is maybe 1 year older than honda's 4 cyl.
i think i'm just a little too tired to be on here tonight and am heading to bed! (school and work for 12 hours does that - even to this 20 year old!). must be those old man cars you drive grad. :p
"that the 2008 has added features that it 'should've had a while ago' seems like an odd statement. they added features because it is a new model. they did not add them a 'while ago' because they haven't brought out an all-new honda since 2003." there is nothing odd about the statemtnt at all. the new honda has caught up to 2007 toyota and nissan in power and features and thus i do not see what the big deal is supposed to be. its great for an honda since the current model is lacking so many features but its not offering anything new. if we are basing "benchmark" status on sales i fail to see how the #2 car is the one to beat. care to explain that one?
"i'm coming in late to this conversation, but when has the toyota ever needed $4k in discounts to sell? " right now. look at edmunds tmv or your local paper if you have doubts. toyota arent selling for anywhere near msrp.
"the toyota, honda, and nissan are each others main competition, and are priced to compete with each other. these cars are not priced to compete with chevrolet, hyundai, or ford, and should not be. " um, why should they not be? they are not head and shoulders above the competition anymore. they are very competent cars as are most cars in this class. i think the '08 chevrolet is very competitive and can stand toe to toe with any of those three cars you have on a pedastal. sales dont mean much in terms of best in class. just look at pickups or small car sales. toyota is best selling small car but few would say its the best small car on the market. as for nissan sales, it should be noted that the chevrolet outsold it last year and will this year as well. not sure why you are saying the three japanese cars are in a class alone.
"the honda has been a gold standard in the midsize segment and is considered a benchmark by most of the automotive press. " actually just c&d. i would love for you to find the last comparison test the honda won in another publication. mt, edmunds, motorweek and others do not consider the current car the benchmark. mt just gave the new model a slight edge over the toyota se but the newest car in the segment is often the best for a short time. the current honda is a good car in a field of good cars. its design, performance and mileage were all about average and its feature content/value equation were below average.
"are there 4k rebates/discounts on the toyota? i would be quite surprised if this was true. please don't tell me you are counting from msrp downwards. " i did not say factory rebates, i am saying the actual selling price of a toyota is $3k+ under msrp these days. if the toyota was another brand people would be saying toyota has to "give them away" to keep volume up. a car that is in high demand doesnt need that kind of discounting to sell. the toyota natural volume is considerably lower than the 40k cars they are selling a month but its obvious that toyota wants to keep sales very high.
check the 2008 models and you will see what i am talking about. the 2008 honda 4 costs over $2k less than the honda v6 model with the same equipment. if you measure cheapness of tire by how quickly they were than high cost sports tires are the worst out there. many of them last less than 20k miles. "cheap" non performance tires will likely last far longer than that, even if they are korean. i never knew you were so against imported parts on a car since you are such a honda fan.
although you so firmly believe hyundai is an afterthought in this (or probably any other automotive size segment)please keep in mind that both honda and toyota have had decades (since at least 1976 for the honda and 1985 for the toyota)to "sell" the buying public on the "goodness" of these cars. hyundai is a new-comer". were the early versions of these great cars? in a word..no. the honda's rusted out early on (still do in certain rust belt regions)and toyota has had their problems also. refer to the recent "sludge" problems. refer also to transmission problems on the honda. do these problems deter zelots from buying honda and toyota again? nope...the next one will be better (for sure) but for joe average who decided to try one of those brands because of all the hyperbole and got problems instead of goodness, well they are among those who decided to give hyundai a try. what!!?? honda or toyota defectors?, happens all the time. so far hyundai has avoided any major "ooops!!" unlike honda or toyota. i am old enough to remember when the "big 3" thought the new comers from japan with the funny names were minor irritants and could be mostly ignored...maybe the new comer from korea shouldn't be.
"or it could be the other way around - saturn is making a lot of money on the lower end xe than the xr - adding a v6 and all those extras for only 2k! in most cars that offer a choice of engines (except gm/ford whose base engines are ancient, though gm is righting that now), there is a 2-3k difference in price. i don't see why you are so surprised if this is the case with the honda as well. " price difference between xe and xr is far more than $2k as i stated in my post. the xr starts at $25k. ancient engines? the base engine in the ford is a 263hp vvt dohc v6. the ford has a 160hp dohc four with vvt. all of gm's 2008 epsilon cars have a 169hp dohc four standard that make more power than toyota standard engine. the v6 always costs more, my point is honda is charging all that money for the engine only in the 2008 model as far as i can tell. it would be different if other equipment was bundled with the engine for that price. you will not find a $2k-$3k difference between any four cylinder and v6 domestic cars unless other equipment is included.
"last year 481k americans saw this value - thousands make this decision everymonth and even more if you count honda and nissan buyers. " last year about 700k americans decided to buy gm midsize cars. dont see your point. also 900k+ people bought f150s. does that mean the ford is twice as good as the toyota? sales numbers alone dont mean much when you break things down. as i have stated before on other threads, other automakers dont even have enough capacity for a single model to outsell toyota. remember, toyota (and lexus) only makes three midsize sedans- one of which is the low volume gs. is there any wonder they sell over 450k of one model when you consider their size? on top of that they count toyota sales. if chevrolet and monte carlo sales were added last year chevrolet would've been around 400k units. chevrolet and chevrolet sold about 40k units last month which is very close to toyota sales. if you add in pontiac, saturn, buick sales you are talking another 30k units.
heres the thing, you dont base a car's "overpriced" factor on its brand, you base it on the competition. there is no way the ford, hyundai or cts could be considered overpriced when you compare them to key competitors. the ford is a value compared to the japanese cars in this class, even with its weak v6 engine. i would sacrifice 40hp to save $3k because 221hp is enought o get the job done. anytime a loaded ford with nav can be had for $28k or so the car is not overpriced. same applies to hyundai. how in the world could you pay $25k for an honda se and then say a ford is worth no more than $20k? a loaded ford has leather, heated seats, cd changer, nav, mp3 jack, lumbar support, split folding rear seat, 17" wheels, etc. the idea that a cts is worth no more than $30k with all the features it has is laughable.
"the ford's 2.3l base engine is "ancient"? from what i can tell the original design is maybe 1 year older than honda's 4 cyl. " its only ancient in the ford, not the 3 or the 6 though since they are imports.
the top sellers are benchmarks. it's pretty straight-forward. the mid-size sedan market is about large volume, that is the goal for the automakers. none of them have a goal of having the lowest selling model. hence the best sellers are the bench mark. it mystifies why that is hard to grasp. if i am an engineer/ designer for hyundai, i look at what toyota (reliability & 'comfy' handling) and honda (reliability & 'sporty' handling) are offering and i try to match their offering with whatever hook my brand represents. in hyundai's case that seems to be value, which is a good thing. do you think the vehicles that most buyers choose not to buy are the more important ones?
i think the '08 chevrolet is very competitive and can stand toe to toe with any of those three cars you have on a pedastal has anyone actually driven the 08 chevrolet? i have not seen any reviews. maybe you have and can comment but certainly the retiring chevrolet was far out-classed by toyota and honda.
i think one of the most if not the most important (signficant) mid-sized cars out there is the toyota. but its sales volume is quite small compared to several other mid-sized cars. another very significant mid-sized car is the volkswagen. it is generally rated near the top of the mid-sized class. but its sales volume is also quite small. does that make it an unimportant car, an inferior car? no. it's been a "benchmark" in the mid-sized class for years. but it will never outsell cars like honda and toyota because the dealer network is puny compared to honda and toyota (and chevrolet and ford and...), no matter how good it is. i have to wonder what you design at hyundai. it is very clear to me that honda has never been a benchmark for hyundai (i.e. "sporty handling"). it is clear that toyota/lexus is dead-center in hyundai's target.
since you asked: motor-trend quote in an article on the honda: september 2002 "somehow, the honda imparts a sense that, even though it's a lowly four-door family sedan, it has mechanical genetic material that responds to quality driving. that's what ultimately sets the honda apart from most everything else in the midsize-sedan universe." motor-trend comparo '07 toyota & '08 honda: "the honda reigns as the best of the best-the benchmark." there's that b-word again.... from edmunds 2003 comparison which the honda won: "the honda honda is to the midsize family sedan category what the bmw 3 series is to the entry-level luxury sedan category. even the manufacturers that don't blatantly copy it still use it as a reference point when designing their own midsize offering." most of these reviews are on the previous model but there is not much available on the '08 yet.
another very significant mid-sized car is the volkswagen. it is generally rated near the top of the mid-sized class....but it will never outsell cars like honda and toyota because the dealer network is puny compared to honda and toyota even cr has given volkswagen credit, as a benchmark, where due. in the april issue they wrote: if the only things that mattered to a car buyer were performance, toyota, and safety, volkswagen would be at the top of the heap. in my area volkswagen has as nearly as many dealerships as honda or toyota. in a 20 mile radius there are 4 volkswagen dealers and 5 each for honda and toyota. the amazing thing is how few dealerships honda and toyota get away with, considering the volume of sales. for comparison there are 12 ford dealers within 20 miles of me.
"the top sellers are benchmarks. it's pretty straight-forward. the mid-size sedan market is about large volume, that is the goal for the automakers. none of them have a goal of having the lowest selling model. " so the ford is the benchmark of pickups? toyota is benchmark of compacts? sales are a measure of popularity, not necessarily benchmark status. this is proven by the fact that the 2006 toyota was a best seller and was probably the 3rd best car in the segment at best. by the 2006 model year the car had been surpassed by ford, hyundai, honda and nissan. are you willing to say the chevrolet is the 3rd best family car on the market since sales are the most important factor?
"has anyone actually driven the 08 chevrolet? i have not seen any reviews. maybe you have and can comment but certainly the retiring chevrolet was far out-classed by toyota and honda. " this is probably why gm redesigned it. the new car and old car have nothing in common besides they are on the same platform. improved engines, looks, features and a hybrid model. the chevrolet is basically the saturn but with a better interior- and the interior and lack of 4 cylinder model where the two main criticisms of the saturn. there is nothing about toyota that "far outclasses" the new chevrolet. honestly, the current car wasnt even outclassed by the last gen toyota. chevrolet had just as much space, matched toyota on fuel economy, looked no worse and the chevrolet offered a 240hp engine when the toyota offered no more than 225hp. other than lack of stability the current model was just as good as 2006 toyota.
"motor-trend quote in an article on the honda: september 2002 "somehow, the honda imparts a sense that, even though it's a lowly four-door family sedan, it has mechanical genetic material that responds to quality driving. that's what ultimately sets the honda apart from most everything else in the midsize-sedan universe." motor-trend comparo '07 toyota & '08 honda: "the honda reigns as the best of the best-the benchmark." there's that b-word again.... " sorry but i dont consider 2002 to be recent. in 2002 the 2007 toyota wasnt out, the current hyundai wasnt out, the saturn wasnt out, the ford wasnt out. i never asked if the honda was hte bencmark when it was brand new in 2003, i was asking where it had been rated #1 recently outside of c&d which always rates it #1. "from edmunds 2003 comparison which the honda won: " again, not current- the honda lost two edmund comparos since 2003.
like i said there is not enough out on the '08 honda.
"they are not head and shoulders above the competition anymore." sure they are. taking the complete package a-z, they are still the benchmark. the honda is still the vehicle that gets my dollars the next time i make a purchase in this segment.
the volkswagen certainly moved the whole segment forward with attention to materials and detail in the volkswagen. they reset the bar in the market and gave the others something to work towards. the dealership networks seem to be very localized. where i am there are 2 volkswagen dealerships (one with a terrible reputation) but 5 -6 honda and toyota dealers.
"so the ford is the benchmark of pickups? toyota is benchmark of compacts?" i would pretty much think so. "sales are a measure of popularity, not necessarily benchmark status" i don't agree. the people have spoken. the 3 series is a good example, small manufacturer by comparision to lexus or nissan. yet all variants of 3 series handily outsell the competitors.
i think one of the most if not the most important (significant) mid-sized cars out there is the toyota. i agree that the toyota is a significant vehicle and would be a benchmark in the hybrid world. it is not a benchmark in the mid-size sedan market since no one is trying to compete directly with it. it is also pretty darn small on the inside and if it had to go toe-to-toe with other mid-size sedans, the only advantage it would have is mileage. every other metric would go to the competition.
so the ford is the benchmark of pickups? toyota is benchmark of compacts? is that even a debate? the new sierra/ chevrolet may have become the new benchmark, but yes, of-course the ford is (or was) the benchmark. should we have judged all light-duty trucks against the dodge?? toyota was a best seller and was probably the 3rd best car in the segment at best by who's judgment? clearly most people found it to be their best choice! are you willing to say the chevrolet is the 3rd best family car on the market since sales are the most important factor? the chevrolet is certainly the benchmark for mid-size rentals and fleet cars. buyers in those industries are looking for a different set of qualities than private buyers, hence the chevrolet sells alot of cheap, large capacity vehicles.
i was talking about the last gen model. it hasnt been considered a benchmark across the board for a few years.
is that even a debate? the new sierra/ chevrolet may have become the new benchmark, but yes, of-course the ford is (or was) the benchmark. should we have judged all light-duty trucks against the dodge?? bestsellers are not benchmarks. people just like them. we all know for all those years the ford was not the best suv out there. not in handling/acceleration/quality/reliability/etc. people just liked them and they were pawned as an everyman (woman)car. by who's judgment? clearly most people found it to be their best choice! that's cuz knucleheaded people don't try anything else. the chevrolet is certainly the benchmark for mid-size rentals and fleet cars. buyers in those industries are looking for a different set of qualities than private buyers, hence the chevrolet sells alot of cheap, large capacity vehicles. you might be right... businesses buy them cuz they can get em cheapo. believe it or not though, these cars are comfortable and decently reliable.
"the chevrolet is certainly the benchmark for mid-size rentals and fleet cars. buyers in those industries are looking for a different set of qualities than private buyers, hence the chevrolet sells alot of cheap, large capacity vehicles. " here we go with the excuses and qualifiers. your argument is that sales are king but now you are saying only certain sales count. even if we take away fleet sales the chevrolet would be in the top 5 in family sedan sales and ahead of ford, hyundai and many other cars. the overwhelming majority of impalas i see are retail. "by who's judgment? clearly most people found it to be their best choice! " by my judgement and many others who care about performance, features, styling, etc. the last gen toyota was about as average as you could get for a family sedan. it sold a lot because the toyota is the default car choice for those who know little about cars or refuse to buy anything that isnt japanese. if sales are your only criteria, than the ford is indeed a benchmark. if you look at features, engines, trannies, interiors, etc. the ford is not a benchmark. in terms of mainstream v8 engines the ford is at the back of the pack. a huge ad budget, enormous production capacity and big discounts allow it to outsell the competition though.
"sure they are. taking the complete package a-z, they are still the benchmark. the honda is still the vehicle that gets my dollars the next time i make a purchase in this segment. " no they are not. name three ways these two cars are far superior to the competition without saying "resale value". i dont have a problem with people refusing to cross shop the toyota and honda with others, but dont act like they are way better than the competition. all of these cars are very close in performance and feature content. since the nissan tops the camcord in hp and styling and bests the honda by having a hybrid i am curious as to how it could be considered inferior to either.
"i would pretty much think so. " if you believe that than features and performance must mean nothing to you. the ford is the 3rd oldest pickup on the market and it has been surpassed by at least two, maybe three competitors. ford makes a lot of em and sells em cheap, but that doesnt make it the benchmark. the ford is barely even mentioned when talking about benchmark pickups in 2007. the 3 series sells in huge numbers based on peformance, reputation and a huge model lineup. no other competitor has 4 body styles and such a wide array of engines. the 3 series is one of the few examples of a benchmark vehicle that outsells the competition. the rx is another example of a vehicle that has been surpassed but continues to outsell all comers.
chevrolet is one of the best for fleet sales. guess that is a benchmark of sorts. l
no they are not. name three ways these two cars are far superior to the competition without saying "resale value". honda: handling. interior layout. reliability. toyota: reliability. smooth ride. quiet cabin. i agree with you that none can be said to be 'far' superior, this is a tight segment. just out of interest, why do you think that resale should not be a criteria?
sorry but i dont consider 2002 to be recent. in 2002 the 2007 toyota wasnt out, the current hyundai wasnt out, the saturn wasnt out, the ford wasnt out. i never asked if the honda was hte bencmark when it was brand new in 2003, i was asking where it had been rated #1 recently outside of c&d which always rates it #1. so it's unfair to point to comparisons when the honda was new but not unfair to then compare that same car to newer competition?
just out of interest, why do you think that resale should not be a criteria? yup. in my mind, asking everyone to take resale value out of the equation is like asking to take reliability out of the equation. once you take anything out, it's not a real comparison anymore. just a'visiting, not a'hosting.
value. if i am ever a multi-millionaire, i still would not over pay for items. i had to work too hard over the early years, and place a higher value on a dollar than others, i guess. there is not enough of a value difference between a mid-range toyota and the top one's, which have mainly fluff, i would not need, nor want. the car, the nitty-gritty specs are just the same. go ahead and let others pay a thousand say for some gold letters which are suppose to upgrade to the next class. i say ridiculous. as for a chevrolet, it looks great and goes fast. the base model is just fine. no way is a $70k car. give me a base, or near base model of a next class up car = value, instead of maxing out on a $44k car. that is unless i am going to the track. if i was joe racer, then yeah, gotta loosen the purse strings. a cts for $45k = you gotta be kidding. look, i kinda like the odd art & science look of the '07 models, and from test drives of those earlier models, i would say it was somewhat entertaining to drive, but really now, is it say a bimmer? or i would call up that largest dealer of vettes and say send one out for $45k. nope, a cts looks to me like a good $30k car, and i have driven some used ones for under $20k which seem just fine. good car, but not world class. it is just interesting. did you know a long time back now, say a decade or two, they asked millionaires, perhaps it was self-made millionaires, what car they drive. the number one car was a crown victoria; a used crown victoria. there was the perceived value. when those which were out to impress, with those new high paying internet and computer jobs bought bmw and mercedes, they bought used crown vics. now, i must say that is a bit far to go to save a buck, but you get the idea. these people have the money for a reason -- they can spot true value. and yes, i am but a poor boy. if ever so rich as afford a new cadillac or vette, i would have to justify it still as a value. it would not be one with junk on it just to impress. as for a toyota, those interiors look cheap to me, and the funny nose is a bit much. i ended up with an honda se v6 which is their best value, and passed on even test driving the toyota. the saturn seemed like the other good car. the ford and hyundai, imho, seem like the runners up awards cars. oh yeah, the nissan i did drive, but was not impressed. seems overpriced too. loren
hi kirstie! cars with low resale are normally low selling in the retail market, and thus the less desirable ones to begin with. it can be a precursor of things to come. now some cars, in the high dollar, are not good resale due to those buying the cars. the high-rollers and flithy rich do not want to be seen in a used top line mercedes say, or a maserati, so they buy them new and dare we say, because they can do so. no one can afford to pay for those luxury cars until they fall down quite a ways in resale value, then the wannabes take charge of buying them. for the everyday joe cars, those like the chevrolet and chevrolet are selling in huge fleet sales amounts, and thus killing off resale hopes, which were never a strong point of the more recent history of gm's and ford. a ford is a dime a dozen, is it not? so resale means a heck of allot as to how people view a cars percieved, if not true value. loren
or you could consider the toyota and honda products as both different in nature, and equal benchmarks to the rest. the toyota and toyota as good ol' reliable, sort of like your dog, and honda as the quick and spunky cat. the honda and honda are cats. while it is important to keep an eye on what the number one, two and three are doing, being ahead of the game means coming up with the next best thing. for the domestics, i think that thing is first style, then engineering in decent fuel economy, and perfect ergonomics. replicating the features, and how they screw together is all fine and dandy, but then you still have an " all the rest " sort of car. hyundai is a good car. at one time it had a more unique look to it. i think it is an example of a car which once again will do better when they toyota out into the new looks, at which point they have good car, with some more captivating style. not saying the current style is not good. it is just not grabbing the customers off the streets. i am afraid too many cars are just good enough in style. that said, what a great opportunity for the domestics. chrysler cashed in, but had no follow through. and i am thinking the 300 had the style, and uniqueness of rwd, and awd cars in a lower price range, but the style had this love it or hate it, or even worse i love it, but it ain't so practical effect. those too tall doors, with the chop top was confining to some, and hard to see out of for others. perhaps if they had three good styles between three sizes, more customers would have a choice in the chrysler line. the dodge is just another 300, at a better price, with even cheaper looking interior, and the chrysler is a disaster. the rest are lower volume specialty cars. not sure what a dodge is suppose to be. does chrysler know? they have the dodge for value. oh well. l
"no they are not. name three ways these two cars are far superior to the competition without saying "resale value". honda: handling. interior layout. reliability. toyota: reliability. smooth ride. quiet cabin. i agree with you that none can be said to be 'far' superior, this is a tight segment. " resale value isnt a built in feature of any car. external forces determine resale value. besides, as i've noted in other threads its overblown. people who brag about resale value dont note that they are based on msrp's not transaction prices. there is no relibale method out there to determine actual resale value that takes into account financing costs and transaction prices. if two comparable cars are separated by $2k up front (in terms of price paid) and are both financed for 5 years the "better" car may be worth $2500 more after 5 years but what difference does it make if the purchaser of the car with better resale borrowed more money at a higer rate? cars that cost less are going to be worth less in the end. yes i know the rate of decline is different, but that doesnt count financing costs. honda is no better than competition in ride quality, quietness or interior layout. the interior layouts of 90% of cars is similar and logical these days. the handling of the honda is definitely not best in segment these days based on actual comments by testers and test data.
"unless there is another engine sludge episode" a case of sour grapes? i wasn't affected directly. however, the manner in which toyota handled the problem made me decide that i would never buy a toyota product ever, period. tens of thousands of owners were affected. i seriously doubt if any of them would buy another toyota product again either.
"no they are not. name three ways these two cars are far superior to the competition without saying "resale value". honda: handling. interior layout. reliability. toyota: reliability. smooth ride. quiet cabin. i agree with you that none can be said to be 'far' superior, this is a tight segment. " resale value isnt a built in feature of any car. external forces determine resale value. besides, as i've noted in other threads its overblown. people who brag about resale value dont note that they are based on msrp's not transaction prices. there is no relibale method out there to determine actual resale value that takes into account financing costs and transaction prices. if two comparable cars are separated by $2k up front (in terms of price paid) and are both financed for 5 years the "better" car may be worth $2500 more after 5 years but what difference does it make if the purchaser of the car with better resale borrowed more money at a higer rate? cars that cost less are going to be worth less in the end. yes i know the rate of decline is different, but that doesnt count financing costs. honda is no better than competition in ride quality, quietness or interior layout. the interior layouts of 90% of cars is similar and logical these days. the handling of the honda is definitely not best in segment these days based on actual comments by testers and test data.
1. the overall fit and finish of the honda. 2. the overall smoothness of the honda. 3. the overall styling (okay this is subjective) i for one don't like the looks of the nissan or the way it drives and would avoid cvt like the plague. the fact the nissan comes in a hybrid doesn't give it points. in addition, the nissan is not the same quality or reliability as the honda. the nissan has more going for it than the ford, but less then the honda.
the toyota and toyota as good ol' reliable, sort of like your dog, and honda as the quick and spunky cat. the honda and honda are cats. if the honda is a cat, the mazda is a tiger :p
"unfair" isnt the word i would use. i would say its pointless to say the honda is the current benchmark and then use 5 year old comparisons to back that up. competition changes a lot in 5 years. the current honda is not the benchmark when measured against its contemporaries. it may have been in 2002 however.
honda is no better than competition in ride quality, quietness or interior layout. the interior layouts of 90% of cars is similar and logical these days. the handling of the honda is definitely not best in segment these days based on actual comments by testers and test data. note- i didn't claim the honda was best in quietness. however, while i agree that certain cars may be better than the honda in ride quality (mazda?), reliability (really none, maybe toyota) or interior layout (volkswagen), no car can put all 3 together better than the honda. people who brag about resale value dont note that they are based on msrp's not transaction prices. nonsense. did you see what happened to gm and ford's resale when they started doing zero interest and putting all kinds of rebates out there? they lost value even as the msrp stayed the same. regardless of what they are based on, resale is a very quantifiable number. whether you disagree with their methodology, kelly blue book, edmunds etc. all have resale numbers that are industry standards. try going to trade in your car and tell them that you want them to use your preferred method and not kelley blue book! you'll be laughed out of the room. when i go to trade i know exactly what i expect to get based on how i have treated the car appearence-wise and what the blue book is on the car.
"1. the overall fit and finish of the honda. 2. the overall smoothness of the honda. 3. the overall styling (okay this is subjective) " styling is subjective so you can rule that out but i will say many do not agree with your assessment. i dont know how you define "smoothness" but i assure you most cars in this class are sufficiently refined and quiet. just look at the noise level measurements in any test. fit and finish is close across the board these days. you can claim the honda has superior fit and finish but a quick walk through a mall parking lot will show you that there is no dicernable difference between brands in this regard. even hyundai have great panel fits these days. reliability is also good across the board. cr gives data that says the honda is very reliable while other cars are simply reliable. bottom line is that most of these cars are not going to have major problems within 5 years or more. when you factor in the superior warranty you get with most other brands i think i am more than willing to take my chances with them.
"regardless of what they are based on, resale is a very quantifiable number. whether you disagree with their methodology, kelly blue book, edmunds etc. all have resale numbers that are industry standards. try going to trade in your car and tell them that you want them to use your preferred method and not kelley blue book! you'll be laughed out of the room. " just traded in a car and i can tell you kbb wont get you far at a dealership so good luck if you think that is your saving grace. secondly, i didnt say you should use a different method to calculate resale- what i said was the actual difference to your pocket is much smaller than indicated by kbb resale values. what about financing costs? if you borrow more money that is money you dont have to put other things. unless you are paying cash for your car any savings you will get on the back end are absorbed during the time you are making payments. interest is not your friend if you want to save money. i fail to see how buying a more expensive car and taking on more debt is a good way to "save" money in the end. "however, while i agree that certain cars may be better than the honda in ride quality (mazda?), reliability (really none, maybe toyota) or interior layout (volkswagen), no car can put all 3 together better than the honda. " its pretty obvious that your are an honda cheerleader and will not be realistic about the car's merits. the honda isnt even known for a plush ride and you are telling it its possibly the best riding car in the class. the honda has long been criticized for having a somewhat stiff ride compared to toyota and some domestic competitors. i dont have a problem with the interior layout of most cars in this class and the honda is nothign special. you are saying its the "clear" leader based on subjective matters. when you look at the facts- price, performance, features, warranty, etc the honda is ok but not hyundai. the honda best attribute is resale value if you are a person who buys cars strictly based on what they will be worth at trade in.
a loaded ford has leather, heated seats, cd changer, nav, mp3 jack, lumbar support, split folding rear seat, 17" wheels, etc. that's great that the ford has all those features, but just because it can match other cars in features, doesn't mean it matches in quality or value. the leather could be cheap low grade thin leather, the heated seats might be unreliable, the cd changer might have a low signal to noise ratio, the 17" wheels might be heavier with a lesser finish than other 17" rims. i would sacrifice 40hp to save $3k because 221hp is enought o get the job done. that's great that a heavy oversized 220 hp engine is good enough for you, but why not get 40 hp more and get better mileage to boot? or why not just get 170 hp with a light 4 cylinder and get much better mileage. 170 hp will get the job done just as well, and save you that $3k.
another very significant mid-sized car is the volkswagen. it is generally rated near the top of the mid-sized class. but its sales volume is also quite small. does that make it an unimportant car, an inferior car? yes, the answer is yes, the volkswagen is an inferior car when it comes to durability, reliability, and dependability. if it was as "good" as the toyota and honda in those areas, then it would sell just as much (or right in between) the toyota and honda (provided they don't raise the pricing)
did you see what happened to gm and ford's resale when they started doing zero interest and putting all kinds of rebates out there? they lost value even as the msrp stayed the same. well of course it did. because if i bought car x for $25,000 and 3 years later they have the same msrp but now have a $3k rebate then my 3 year old car is worth at least $3k less, maybe more. however, the depreciation on the new car that was purchased at $22,000 with the rebate will be basically the same after 3 years, provided the rebates don't increase. conversely a decrease in rebates would provide better resale values for the older vehicle. large rebates and rental fleet dumping are only necessary if you build more vehicles than the public wants to buy. this used to be the strategy at the domestic automakers because it was cheaper to do that than to reduce production or close plants because the autoworkers got paid either way. ford's inventory levels are so low this year that they cancelled the normal labor day sale, instead they're only doing the normal model year closeout sale. they're learning and it will show in the new 09 ford out next year.
just traded in a car and i can tell you kbb wont get you far at a dealership so good luck if you think that is your saving grace. that depends on the car. if you buy a car that isn't in high demand or has a lot of discounts, that typically will figure in to trade in value as well (although retail seems immune). trading in a less desirable model - which the dealer will likely end up auctioning or wholesaling, will bring back of book value.
that's cuz knucleheaded people don't try anything else. or more likely the case, they found the toyota to be better built and of higher quality (leading to long term reliability) than the other competing models. also, toyota's ride very nicely on the straitaways, very comfortable and luxury-like. not everyone's cup of tea, but a lot of people like that when combined with reliability.
you will not see any domestic or korean car outselling the toyota anytime soon, probably never. its not going to happen. the competition has to worry about taking some sales from toyota and honda and increasing share. people often say honda and toyota "dominate" the midsize car segment but thats bs. the domestic brands dominate the pickuup segment, but you cannot say the same for camcord. you can say that they outsell the nameplates they compete against. frankly gm has gotten its midsize cars together and they are only going to get better. ford and chrysler are just doing ok and have some work to do. hopefully the 2009 ford will address that car's weaknesses. the chrysler cars have impressive levels of equipment but need more v6 power and better styling.
its pretty obvious that your are an honda cheerleader and will not be realistic about the car's merits. this discussion began when you stated that the honda was not a benchmark in the class. since we are discussing the various perspectives that (imo) make it a benchmark, it would not make a lot of sense for me not to think it's a bench mark right? i chose the phrase 'ride quality' carefully because i do not believe that plush is a sign of great ride quality. ride quality is a balance of confident road holding and handling without beating the occupants up. that may have some subjective elements to it. if you prefer a soft ride then that would explain a lot of your down-playing of the honda's influence in this class. if you value saving money up front, again, that explains your perspective on the car. that's neither right or wrong, but you and i do not have the same goals with our vehicles obviously. just traded in a car and i can tell you kbb wont get you far at a dealership so good luck if you think that is your saving grace. so how was your trade in valued? i assume you knew what the value would have been in kbb, was it higher or lower? were you expecting sale price and got wholesale? if it was not on kbb, why not? you are in a big market- a dealer has no reason to come off of the industry standard. fwiw, i absolutely expect kbb wholesale to be the minimum price offered when trading unless the car has exceptionally low miles/ wear or exceptionally high mile/ wear. if it is lower, the dealership doesn't want my trade and i move on, and if i can get higher, great.
since the nissan tops the camcord in hp and styling and bests the honda by having a hybrid i am curious as to how it could be considered inferior to either. last i checked, the honda did come in a hybrid variant, so no advantage for nissan there. styling wise, i don't really care for nissan's spaceship designs with cheap looking tail lights. the 3 ways honda and toyota leave everyone else in this segment in the dust are: reliability, dependability, durability, and not only that, but build quality, material quality, & engineering quality.
"that's great that the ford has all those features, but just because it can match other cars in features, doesn't mean it matches in quality or value. the leather could be cheap low grade thin leather, the heated seats might be unreliable, the cd changer might have a low signal to noise ratio, the 17" wheels might be heavier with a lesser finish than other 17" rims. " that was an incredible reach. the excuses are unlimited i see. i measure value by what equipment you get for your dollar. i would love for you to explain how a car with less features and a higher price is a smarter by for the consumer. the ford is well equipped for the price of a poorly equipped honda v6. that is a fact, not something that can be debated. now if someone is unwilling to live without 244hp and stability the honda may be worth thousands extra. if you can do without those things the ford is a good buy. "or why not just get 170 hp with a light 4 cylinder and get much better mileage. 170 hp will get the job done just as well, and save you that $3k. " dont get this part at all. you could get a ford i-4 and save thousands over an honda/toyota i-4 model. you also mention "40 more hp" but the current honda only has 23 more hp than the ford. i think the honda's mileage is about 1mpg better than the ford. in reality the ford v6 competes with the i-4 toyota and honda in price. if you want mileage that may not matter to you but if you want performance the v6 will outperform the 158hp toyota and 166hp honda easily.
people often say honda and toyota "dominate" the midsize car segment but thats bs. who does?
honda hybrid is done right about........now. 2008s are out, there is no more honda hybrid. i am not a huge fan of the nissan's styling but to those who only shop japanese its the most stylish of the trio. "but build quality, material quality, & engineering quality. " any measure of any of those factors? probably not which is why its pointless to make absolute statements that hinge on those attributes. the panel gaps on toyota and honda are no better than anything else in the segment. in fact, i find the fit on the current toyota trunk to be lackluster due to the complex faux bmw shape of the decklid. unless you have a way to quantify how those cars are better in materials (that is a joke considering the new toyota's interior), build quaity and engineering i would suggest you come up with some more meaures of superiority. this is not the 80s or 90s, toyota and honda do not have fit/finish that blows away the competiton anymore. engineers and designers are pretty smart people- if given the authority and money to develop high quality parts that can be assembled with tight tolerances they will do so. the top brands when it comes to gap tolerances are german- they are noticable better than lower priced brands but even the mainstream brands are very good.
the media says it quite often. i just read an article about the new chevrolet that makes that statement. you cant dominate any segment in which you dont sell the most vehicles last time i checked. toyota loses the sales crown in midsize sedans by a sizable margin and honda loses it by a large margin.
when you factor in the superior warranty you get with most other brands i think i am more than willing to take my chances with them. you might be willing to roll the dice and take your chances with them, but most people are not willing. i don't want to have to use a warranty, it's a huge hassle, even with the best of customer service.
"also, toyota's ride very nicely on the straitaways, very comfortable and luxury-like. not everyone's cup of tea, but a lot of people like that when combined with reliability. " buick do the same thing but i dont hear anyone calling them the greatest things since sliced bread. its interesting that toyota benchmark cars drive much like the american cars of old that have been so criticized by import fans and the media. toyota is building its own version of buick and people love them. if buick builds a buick people call it an old man's car.
"you might be willing to roll the dice and take your chances with them, but most people are not willing. i don't want to have to use a warranty, it's a huge hassle, even with the best of customer service. " since most midsize buyers do not by an honda i would beg to differ. the sales totals of all the cars you are deriding far exceeds honda sales so i'm not sure where you get this idea that "most" buyers chose the honda or toyota. no one likes repairs on their car but i fail to see how its a huge hassle unless you live 50 miles from a dealership. i would say 90% of what goes wrong with todays cars can be fixed at an oil change, i'm not talking blown trannies or cracked axles. gm and some others give you a loaner car if needed. if my car causes me to need 2 more warranty repairs (at oil changes) than the average honda and saves me $30 a month for 5 years i am willing to take that trade off. btw, its no roll of the dice. if you read cr's details instead of just looking at those silly circles you will see that cr tells you (only in the annual auto issue) that problem rates amongst us and asian brands are very close and there isnt much difference between them. you are acting as if buying anything other than a honda is going end up with you stranded on the side of the road. do you read edmunds lt testing? they rarely take any vehicle in for a repair unless they are going in for scheduled maintenance. i think the last long term vehicle they had that left them stranded was a honda. imagine that.
toyota's ride nice and soft, whereas buick i've been in ride floaty, barge/boat like soft. i don't think toyota's are as extreme as buick, but still provide the same level of toyota w/o losing some stability. also, the new v6 2008 honda does have more than 40 hp over the ford. and it looks like it'll have an advantage in 2008 epa ratings as well. that would be an example of superior engineering.
so manufacturing capacity and number of stores have nothing to do with units sold? the fact that, for example, one company has capacity to turn out a maximum of, say, 150,000 units a year compared to another that can turn out 500,000 units a year with more than twice as many stores to sell them makes no difference? the higher-volume car must obviously be superior? sorry, that doesn't make sense to me. doesn't make sense to the folks at cr also, who rated the volkswagen turbo the top i4 family sedan and the volkswagen v6 the top v6 family sedan (tied with honda). and they recommend the v6 based on its reliability and safety. the turbo i4 must be less reliable than the v6, since cr did not recommend the turbo.
if your lucky it'll be something you do at oil changes, but then who's going to pay overpriced oil changes at dealerships all the time when you could do it for half the price at jiffy lube? also, edmunds lt tests are really just shorterm tests, and the vehicle aren't ever kept for much more than 12 months or 20,000 miles, right? if the lt tests were for like 5 years and 100,000 miles, that would be more telling.
you cant dominate any segment in which you dont sell the most vehicles last time i checked. so if it's not the toyota and it's not the honda, what is the best selling mid-size sedan?
"i chose the phrase 'ride quality' carefully because i do not believe that plush is a sign of great ride quality. ride quality is a balance of confident road holding and handling without beating the occupants up. that may have some subjective elements to it. if you prefer a soft ride then that would explain a lot of your down-playing of the honda's influence in this class. if you value saving money up front, again, that explains your perspective on the car. that's neither right or wrong, but you and i do not have the same goals with our vehicles obviously. " ride quality and sportiness are not the same. i am not one for lexus like isolation in a car. the honda is neither the sportiest car in this class nor is it the smoothest riding. its in the middle somewhere. it doesnt ride softer than the buick or toyota and its not as sporty as the ford, nissan or saturn. its right in the middle. we need to separate the honda from being your fave car from it being the benchmark. its obviously the former and obviosuly not the latter based on any objective evaluation. i think people who refuse to drive the competition are the first ones to put the honda on a pedastal. until you drive the best of the rest you dont know whats out there and you go on believing honda has a magic formula. you cannot force a dealer to give you kbb value- trust me. my brother and i both traded in cars recently and it does not work. dealers have a lot of explanations, some of which are legit, as to why they are not going to hand over what kbb says. my car was not in demand but my brother's car was and he still got a grand less than kbb value. its not as easy as you make it seem. furthermore different sites give different numbers so you have no solid reliably data. i saw values froom $6100-$8000 for my car online.
if i told volkswagen today that i was willing to buy 400,000 base model volkswagen at 30k each, and forked over an advance of 25% of the money, i bet they would sign the contract and find/obtain/acquire the capacity to build them within the next year. capacity means nothing, if the demand is there, the supply will find a way.
"so if it's not the toyota and it's not the honda, what is the best selling mid-size sedan? " let me try to be more explicit here. you have to look at total sales of all brands. domination is what the big 3 have in the pickup market- they sell about 90% of the pickups in this country. honda and toyota are best sellers but those cars do not dominate the midsize car market. they cant when gm sells more midsize cars than either toyota or honda. the pontiac, chevrolet and chevrolet alone reprsented around 600k sales in 2006 which is more than honda by a large margin and above toyota by a significant margin. those two nameplates are very successful and top the sales charts, but their combined sales do not equal domination of the market. you can make the argument that honda and toyota dominate the compact market because those two vehicles single handedly make up a huge chunk of that overall market.
another very significant mid-sized car is the volkswagen. it is generally rated near the top of the mid-sized class. but its sales volume is also quite small. does that make it an unimportant car, an inferior car? yes, the answer is yes, the volkswagen is an inferior car when it comes to durability, reliability, and dependability. if it was as "good" as the toyota and honda in those areas, then it would sell just as much (or right in between) the toyota and honda (provided they don't raise the pricing) given the number of 10-15 year old volkswagen i see cruising around in the midwest, and the number of 20+ year old volkswagen on the west coast, i would say their durability is fine. i would be more concerned with the durability of a contemporary bmw with so few maintenance requirements.
we need to separate the honda from being your fave car from it being the benchmark. its obviously the former and obviously not the latter based on any objective evaluation. i think people who refuse to drive the competition are the first ones to put the honda on a pedastal. just so we're clear, when i bought my car in '06 i cross-shopped ford/ mercury/ honda/ mazda 6/ used mb mercedes/ used bmw bmw. i went with the honda with leather, v6 and 6-speed manual because none of the other vehicles had a combination of reliability, manual, v6, cost and mpg that the honda put into one vehicle. i did not cross-shop toyota (or buick for that matter) because i don't want that handling and manuals do not come with leather. you can't force a dealer to give you kbb, but you can go to another dealer.
if your lucky it'll be something you do at oil changes, but then who's going to pay overpriced oil changes at dealerships all the time when you could do it for half the price at jiffy lube? jiffy lube oil change - $32 dunning subaru oil change - $23 4qts 5w30
"toyota's ride nice and soft, whereas buick i've been in ride floaty, barge/boat like soft. i don't think toyota's are as extreme as buick, but still provide the same level of toyota w/o losing some stability. " you havent been in recent buick. the buick is no more floaty than a toyota or pruis. the models with the firmer suspension are likely more firm than toyota. same goes for lucerne- only the base suspension model offers a "traditional" toyota soft ride. "also, the new v6 2008 honda does have more than 40 hp over the ford. and it looks like it'll have an advantage in 2008 epa ratings as well. that would be an example of superior engineering. " honda has better powertrain than ford and it should considering its $2k+ price premium over ford. the new honda actually does have close to class leading v6 mileage which is good since the current car is just midpack. when it comes to i-4 mileage the new honda is just on par with toyota and gm models. the chevrolet with i-4 and 6 speed should slightly exceed honda i-4's mileage.
you have to look at total sales of all brands why do i have to look at the total sales of all brands? if i want to know what the top selling mid-size sedan is, i want to know what the top selling mid size sedan is. it is irrelevant that between 3 different vehicles, gm has more sales than toyota has in 1 vehicle.
"you can't force a dealer to give you kbb, but you can go to another dealer. " the market not the dealer determines ultimate value of car. my brother got a quote from another dealer that was almost exaclty what the first offered. unless you have extensive experience getting kbb values with no fuss from the dealer i'm not sure why you are arguing this point. dealers know about the internet and they are not going around handing out checks for kbb values with no questions asked. "i went with the honda with leather, v6 and 6-speed manual because none of the other vehicles had a combination of reliability, manual, v6, cost and mpg that the honda put into one vehicle. " well if you only wanted a 6 speed and v6 combo your options were limited to nissan, honda and 6. as for reliability- i guess you plan to keep your car for 10 years because you may have to keep it that long to see any differnce in quality. i hear a lot of talk about the "inferior" quality of honda competitors but i'm curious as to what proof we have of this beyond cr's little circles.
"if i want to know what the top selling mid-size sedan is, i want to know what the top selling mid size sedan is. it is irrelevant that between 3 different vehicles, gm has more sales than toyota has in 1 vehicle. " let me remind you the question was about toyota and honda dominating the midsized market. not best sellers. the media (and you apparently) use top sellers and marketshare dominance as if they are interchangable when they are not in this case. the companies with smaller share of any segment cannot be considered the dominant players in that segment. its pretty simple.
hopefully the 2009 ford will address that car's weaknesses. what weaknesses?
"also, edmunds lt tests are really just shorterm tests, and the vehicle aren't ever kept for much more than 12 months or 20,000 miles, right? if the lt tests were for like 5 years and 100,000 miles, that would be more telling. " you and i both know its not realistic for publications to do 5 year tests. most lt tests in magazines cover between 30k and 40k miles in a 12-18 month period. sorry but that is plenty of time to go wrong although the whole "let see what happens after 100k miles" is a typical cop out answer amongst people who wont accept the quality gap is shrinking. i dont keep many cars for over 100k miles so to me its not even a big deal and i'm going to avoid a model because it might only be trouble free for the first 75k miles of ownership. i read that people keep their cars 6 or 7 years on average. most people are barely making it to 100k miles before trading. you are making a lot of statements and accusations but i see no proof to back up your claims that anyone who buys a brand other than honda or toyota is taking a major risk. do you have any information about major engine or tranny or electrical issues at other brands? since chrysler offers a lifetime powertrain warranty i would say thats a good sign they feel their cars can go the distance. any excuses for that? where's honda's lifetime powertrain warranty? where is honda's roadside assistance? and dont say "they dont need it since they dont break" because it offers assistance for more than just mechanical failures. btw, you better hope your honda doesnt have a problem since the tow will come out of your pocket.
nobody pays more than the 19.99 coupon price at jiffy lube, those coupons are more common than, well...... toyota's and honda.
lack of v6 power, lack of stability, lack of manumatic, interior design/materials. this is all well documented in road tests.
well if you only wanted a 6 speed and v6 combo your options were limited to nissan, honda and 6. my 2006 ford has a v6 and 6 speed.
i am speaking of manual trannies- the honda has no 6 speed auto.
your original comment: you cant dominate any segment in which you dont sell the most vehicles last time i checked i should have realized that what you were referring to was most vehicles with the same frame because toyota and honda do sell the most of their vehicles. again, i am not a domestic basher or a japanophile. i would have happily bought domestic if they had impressed me as much when i was buying. also, i have never had to accept less than kbb wholesale for any car i have traded (inc saab, isuzu, jeep, acura, nissan and infiniti- enough variety that i do not accept the idea that the dealer sets the standard). i do think that the honda and the toyota define the segment currently. since more toyota are sold than any other model and more honda are sold than any other model except the toyota, i would describe them as dominant players. do you believe that manufacturers look to the pontiac or the chevrolet for inspiration?
yes, i will bet that volkswagen would love to sell you 400,000 base volkswagen at a big premium over msrp. but whether they would be able to ramp up plant capacity within a year is questionable. look at toyota a few years ago. they had lots of hungry buyers waiting over a year for a toyota, and they were willing to spend msrp or over to get them. yet it took them a couple of years to ramp up more capacity. why not deal with more realistic scenarios? do you know anyone who will offer to buy 400,000 mid-sized family cars at a big premium over msrp and pay a $3 billion advance (interest free, of course)? i don't.
what assistance would the average "not dumb" person need for roadside assisstance other than for mechanical failures (which we've established is unnecessary for honda's)??? nobody could handle living with a chrysler pos car for more than a few years, so that's why they can offer a lifetime warranty which is really only a 3/36k warranty unless you meet about 45 specific conditions, requirements, catches, hooks, lines, and sinkers. so much fine print tells me they don't believe for a second their cars will go the distance. also, you should ask chrysler where you should get your warranty service when they go bankrupt? is there a secured account somewhere that may only be used to pay off warranty claims? has this secured account been funded properly (10k per vehicle would be proper if you ask me for a chrylser). have you received answers to these questions? the average car buyer might only keep their car less than 6 years or 100k miles, but they should still care how it performs after they own it!!!! why? because the 2nd owner will care! and that second owner cares because they are not going to pay for a junker. the amount the 2nd owner cares about how your car runs after 6 years or 100k miles affects your resale value directly, which will greatly influence your bank account.
my example was an example, of how supply will meet demand, given enough sustained demand, or enough high dollar offers. if volkswagen didn't have the plant capacity, then they could buy or build new plants fast tracked, then start pumping out more volkswagen, all probably within 10 months. or they could pay some other auto plant to retool to build volkswagen instead of jettas, or even volkswagen instead of audi's, or even pay honda to start making volkswagen in ohio..... given enough money, all are possiblities.
i am speaking of manual trannies yeah, i know. i just hate it when people say 5 speed and 6 speed instead of manual.
"i do think that the honda and the toyota define the segment currently. since more toyota are sold than any other model and more honda are sold than any other model except the toyota, i would describe them as dominant players. " let me try one more time. honda and toyota are dominant nameplates in the segment. toyota and honda are not the dominant players in the midsize segment. toyota is a strong second but gm is the leader in midsize car sales. its great that the toyota is the best selling car but at the end of the day all of gm's various models represent a sale for one company. all of the toyota sales represent a unit sold for one company. gm offers different styles and names to get sales why toyota pushes one car for all buyers and thus toyota can sell 400k of the same car. i would be lying if i told you i thought that gm models its car after the toyota. they may aim for toyota reliability but thats about it. when it comes to syling and handling i would say gm is most definitely not trying to out toyota the toyota. i dont think chevrolet is too worried about the chevrolet since its going to rack up over 300k sales this year and it outsold the honda a few times this year. what would make you think other brands (including nissan) wouldnt want the chevrolet's sales? isnt it whipping the hyundai, 6, volkswagen and ford in sales right now? there are only going to be three midsize cars that crack 300k sales this year and one is chevrolet so i'm not sure how you figure gm doesnt have a recipe for success with that car. the opinions of the press and import leaning domestic bashers is one thing, what the marketplace says is another. seeing as though nissan and hyundai are selling cars to rental agencies left and right i do get tired of the whole "chevrolet is only doing well because of fleets" argument. if sales are all you care about than the ford is the best vehicle in the country, period. and the chevrolet is the 2nd best. their sales make the toyota sales look modest.
so if toyota buys gm then toyota would be the dominant midsize manufacturer, but the toyota would still be the dominant mid-size car. at least for now....
"nobody could handle living with a chrysler pos car for more than a few years, so that's why they can offer a lifetime warranty which is really only a 3/36k warranty unless you meet about 45 specific conditions, requirements, catches, hooks, lines, and sinkers." that was one of the worst cop out excuses i've seen in a while. anything but acknowlegde that chrysler is standing behind their product. the powertrain is covered as long as you get the car checked every 5 years- its so simple anyone can do it. we can either base our evaluation of the warranty on what chrysler says in the fine print- or we can base it on your erroneous statement in the previous post that has no backing. there go those pesky facts again, funny how they ruin those rants of yours. if you think chrysler is going bankrupt i suggest you do some more research. i'm sure jim press took that job because he feels chrysler is on the verge of collapse. until recently chrysler was responsible for the majority of the profits generated by dc because the germans had made so many dumb decisions regarding the smart car and other things. chrysler was doing better than mercedes in terms of profitability. i dont think cerberus is in the business of taking over companies that are headed for bankruptcy. roadside assistance is like aaa coverage. check it out- everyone but toyota and honda have it. they will come out for flat tires, dead batteries, etc. oh wait, honda never get either one.
i do get tired of the whole "chevrolet is only doing well because of fleets" argument. sorry you get tired of it but, just like resale, it is a quantifiable arguement. if sales are all you care about than the ford is the best vehicle in the country, period. and the chevrolet is the 2nd best no, they are the bench marks in the light-duty (and heavy-duty) truck segments. additionally they are benchmarks for total vehicle sales. actually going by your perspective the gm twins are the best selling trucks because it's the leader with all the vehicles it brings to the sector. it's pretty clear we disagree on the definition of a bench mark vehicle. i think the 'benchmark' is a vehicle that sets the standard in a segment, it's a combination of all the things which customers tend to buy for and has powerful influence on all competitors. i truly do not understand what you consider a benchmark to be. you and i will have to disagree on what makes a leader in a particular segment. i understand that you consider sales by manufacturer in total to have more impact than sales per vehicle, i disagree with that. fair enough.
what assistance would the average "not dumb" person need for roadside assisstance other than for mechanical failures (which we've established is unnecessary for honda's)??? my experience to the contrary. nobody could handle living with a chrysler pos car for more than a few years, so that's why they can offer a lifetime warranty which is really only a 3/36k warranty unless you meet about 45 specific conditions, requirements, catches, hooks, lines, and sinkers. so much fine print tells me they don't believe for a second their cars will go the distance. also, you should ask chrysler where you should get your warranty service when they go bankrupt? is there a secured account somewhere that may only be used to pay off warranty claims? has this secured account been funded properly (10k per vehicle would be proper if you ask me for a chrylser). have you received answers to these questions? hmm i wonder if they would pay the chiropractor for services for those that have a bad back from the chip they carry on their shoulders every day.
i disagree, the quality of the materials in the more upscale versions of the honda is better than some of the competitors.
take out the fleet sales and what do you have? factor in profit per car, and what do you have? the chevrolet is a full sized car, is it not? are you saying the total of all the epsilon platform cars is greater than the sales of toyota? guess that may be possible, with massive fleet sales and discounting. and they may be able to sell more cars than honda. whoopie, who cares. gm, ford and chrysler need profit -- real profit, and to reduce their debt load. some help, near term, could come in the form of the feds lowering rates. someday this all changes. if rates ever hold to the higher numbers, those bonds are gonna get pretty darn pricey. hope labor is willing to take serious cuts in wages and pay for their own health care, or domestics are in big trouble going forward. we have seen but the tip of the iceberg. i see the term used again, " domestic bashers " in reference to the media opinions on cars, or those here on the forum. time to wake up and face the music, the dreamland world is over. domestic cars, like all the rest, must all compete and hyundai to win. this " mommy, everyone is calling me names, and those bullies are not being fair " is just all so much wasted time. you, "lead, follow, or get out of the way" and nothing more. no more excuses, as your dog did not eat your homework. no more, i will have it done tomorrow and it will be better. sorry but tomorrow is more like today, or is that yesterday for getting your act together to compete in the car world. gm is showing a few sparks, there is hope for fire, but is there a steady flame yet? l
are really really making me tired. i just read through 55 messages (skipping several along the way). let me know when we get out of this debate about market domination and trying to prove each other wrong, and get back to the vehicles' attributes with a little less drama. :sick: really, do the sales numbers etc.. really matter that much?
don't get me started grad.... btw, it's 'benchmarks' not 'sales numbers'...benchmarks.
and everybody has different benchmarks, because everybody will have a different desire for each characteristic of each car. it's starting to smell like bloody dead horse around here...
"where's honda's lifetime powertrain warranty? where is honda's roadside assistance? and dont say "they dont need it since they dont break" because it offers assistance for more than just mechanical failures. btw, you better hope your honda doesnt have a problem since the tow will come out of your pocket." it's not that they don't break, it's that i don't care whether a car has a lifetime powertrain warranty. (they don't need it, because in general they don't break.)
jiffy lube, isn't that pensziol oil and filters? my first change was $34, i think it was, at honda. didn't break the bank to do so, but i have paid much less i'm a little cheap, ya know. l
i just got my oil changed in my '96 today at wal-mart. with oil & filter change, battery test, tire pressure/tread depth test (all of which i get the results of), a windshield wash and interior vacuum, and brand new wiper blades installed, i was out the door for $33 after taxes (the blades were $5.46). the oil change is $25.96 and includes everything but the blades. for $39 at my dealership, i'd get fresh oil and filter, nothing else.
aaa for towing. great insurance company too! as for warranty work, the local dealership can supply you with a car. it is not required though by warranty. there are all sorts of dealerships in the world, and over time you find the good, the bad and the plain ugly ones. i don't think they need to go to a lifetime warranty for powertrain. i would want to see any such warranties finest print. overall, i would say the warranty provided by honda could be improved however. like any car i buy, if it sucks over the years, it is basically gone anyway. so if it becomes a dog for two to three years, by the time the warranty is nearing an end, i would be out of it anyway. all cars can have problems, and personally i think they should add to and adjust some things in the honda warranty. lifetime warranty??? nahhh, sound like one of those too good to be true. a five year bumper to bumper is a good thing. l
if there is no limit to sales, why don't honda and toyota ramp up to sell twice as many honda and toyota? just hyundai their fingers, and *poof*, over 400,000 more sales each per year. they have plenty of money, after all. or they could pay volkswagen to make cars in brazil or germany, or hyundai to make cars in alabama... the possibilities are endless.
you can also get an oil change there for $16.85, i think it is -- the base service. wonder what pep boys is charging. they use purolator filters. perhaps it is still pennzoil for the oil? anyway, couldn't hurt to have the dealerships record the changes while under warranty, and if they screw up, they replace the engine. some dealers let you take your oil, or synthetic in and a filter of choice, and then charge you for the labor. i wonder how happy they are with that l
"let me try one more time. honda and toyota are dominant nameplates in the segment." let's say it this way. wrt to the vehicles only on this board honda and toyota are the benchmark. with respect to all mid-size vehicles honda and toyota are the benchmark. although one can say gm sells more cars than honda and toyota, honda and toyota garner the most sales in the entire segment. does pontiac sell more g6s' than honda?
"no one likes repairs on their car but i fail to see how its a huge hassle unless you live 50 miles from a dealership. i would say 90% of what goes wrong with todays cars can be fixed at an oil change" it wasn't just the need for repairs on my brand new 2004 $29k msrp ford, it was the general ownership experience that turned out to be a huge hassle. examples of me enjoying my new ford... - wanting to back into a parking spot, i stop and shift into reverse, wait a second, then move from the brake to the gas. the engine revs freely, with no vehicular movement, and then bang! it finally jolts into gear and off shoots backwards. the dealer puts a transmission additive in, which has little effect. - i'm just crusing down the road with my foot on the gas. the engine is lazily turning 2,000 rpms. suddenly, the car in front starts slowing down, so i let off the gas, and bang! the transmission jolts into neutral, feeling like i have just run something over. the dealer can't ever seem to replicate the problem. - i wake up to go to work, get in the car and try to crank it. the starter chugs along, but the engine just won't catch. i try this several more times. i swear at it. i consider lighting it on fire. instead, i wait a few minutes and try it again. it finally coughs back to life with a very rough idle. i keep my foot on the gas and wait a minute just in case. again, the dealer can't find anything wrong. "there are no trouble codes in the computer." at least, each time this happens, i've got a few months before it happens again. these are just three examples... sure, it was rated average in cr, and probably only has a couple more problems than a top-rated car; but living with it every day was a pain- and forget being fixed at oil changes, the dealer couldn't ever fix it, period! now i drive a new honda, and (knock on wood) it has no such quality issues. i bought the honda partly because it has less of a chance of ever being such a nusiance to own.
toyota & gm gives you guys what they want you to have. ford is dead, but they don't know it yet. the oil companies just keep getting richer and nobody can unseat a member of congress and life goes on.
what weaknesses? you have goota be kidding - all these cars as well as all others have weaknesses. even the generally acknowledged leaders can be rightfully cited for higher initial costs, hard to cope with dealers, somewhat subjective styling evaluations etc. the ford(and to a lesser extent the 6)? what is under the hoods,4 and 6 cylinder, obviously the biggest points. if they are good enough for you is not the point, they do not measure up to what can be found in several of these cars from either a hp or fe standpoint. in my own case, for example, ford could reduce the price of a v6 ford to $10k and i would still pay the extra $15k or so for what is in a camcordima (or even a hyundai) - such is the value i put on drivetrain sophistication (or lack of it).what you personally 'value' may be different, which of course is fine - but all these cars have quantifiable weaknesses
well the cheapest service didn't have a price beside it; but i could really stand to have new blades and my car vacuumed. wal-mart uses a fram filter and castrol.
